  

A New Hope
Prologue

　　Another galaxy, another time. 
　　The Old Republic was the Republic of legend, greater than distance or time.No need to note where it was or whence it came, only to know that´it was theRepublic.
　　Once, under the wise rule of the Senate and the protection of the Jedi Knights,the Republic throve and grew. But as often happens when wealth and power passbeyond the admirable and attain the awesome, then appear those evil ones who havegreed to match.
　　So it was with the Republic at its height. Like the greatest of trees, able towithstand any external attack, the Republic rotted from within though the danger wasnot visible from outside.
　　Aided and abetted by restless, power-hungry individuals within the government,and the massive organs of commerce, the ambitious Senator Palpatine caused himselfto be elected President of the Republic. He promised to reunite the disaffectedamong the people and to restore the remembered glory of the Republic.
　　Once secure in office he declared himself Emperor, shutting himself away fromthe populace. Soon he was controlled by the very assistants and boot-lickers he hadappointed to high office, and the cries of the people for justice did not reach his ears.
　　Having exterminated through treachery and deception the Jedi Knights,guardians of justice in the galaxy, the Imperial governors and bureaucrats prepared toinstitute a reign of terror among the disheartened worlds of the galaxy. Many usedthe imperial forces and the name of the increasingly isolated Emperor to further theirown personal ambitions.
　　But a small number of systems rebelled at these new outrages. Declaringthemselves opposed to the New Order they began the great battle to restore the OldRepublic.
　　From the beginning they were vastly outnumbered by the system held in thrall bythe Emperor. In those first dark days it seemed certain the bright flame of resistancewould be extinguished before it could cast the light of new truth across a galaxy ofoppressed and beaten peoples´
From the First Saga
Journal of the Whills
　　"They were in the wrong place at the wrong time. Naturally they became heroes."
　　 Leia Organa of Alderaan,Senator

IndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  