  

A New Hope
I

　　It was a vast, shining globe and it cast a light of lambent topaz into space-but it wasnot a sun. Thus, the planet had fooled men for a long time. Not until entering closeorbit around it did its discoverers realize that this was a world in a binary system andnot a third sun itself. 
　　At first it seemed certain nothing could exist on such a planet, least of all humans.Yet both massive G1 and G2 stars orbited a common center with peculiar to permitthe development of a rather stable, if exquisitely hot, climate. Mostly this was a drydesert of a world, whose unusual star-like yellow glow was the result of doublesunlight striking sodium-rich sands and flats. That same sunlight suddenly shone onthe thin skin of a metallic shape falling crazily toward the atmosphere.
　　The erratic course the galactic cruiser was traveling was intentional, not theproduct of injury but of a desperate desire to avoid it. Long streaks of intense energyslid close past its hull, a multihued storm of destruction like a school of rainbowremoras fighting to attach themselves to a larger, unwilling host.
　　One of those probing, questing beams succeeded in touching the fleeing ship,striking its principal solar fin. Gemlike fragments of mental and plastic erupted intospace as the end of the fin disintegrated. The vessel seemed to shudder.
　　The source of those multiple energy beams suddenly hove into view-alumbering Imperial cruise, its massive outline bristling cactuslike with dozens ofheavy weapons emplacements. Light ceased arching from those spines now as thecruiser moved in close. Intermittent explosions and flashes of light could be seen inthose portion of the smaller ship which had taken hits. In the absolute cold of spacethe cruiser snuggled up alongside its wounded prey.
　　Another distant explosions shook the ship-but it certainly didn't feel distant toArtoo Detoo or See Threepio. The concussion bounced them around the narrowcorridor like bearings in an old motor.
　　To look at these two, one would have supposed that the tall, human-like machine,Threepio was the master and the stubby, tripodal robot, Artoo Detoo, an inferior.But while Threepio might have sniffed disdainfully at the suggestion, they were infact equal in everything save loquacity. Here Threepio was clearly -andnecessarily -the superior.
　　Still another explosion rattled the corridor, throwing Threepio off balance. Hisshorter companion had the better of it during such moments with his squat, cylindricalbody's low center of gravity well balanced on thick, clawed legs.Artoo glanced up at Threepio, who was steadying himself against a corridor wall.Lights blinked enigmatically around a single mechanical eye as the smaller robotstudied the battered casing of his friend. A patina of metal and fibrous dust coatedthe usually gleaming bronze finish, and there were some visible dents -all the resultof the pounding the rebel ship they were on had been taking.
　　Accompanying the last attack was a persistent deep hum, which even the loudestexplosion had not been able to drown out. Then for no apparent reason, the bassothrumming abruptly ceased, and the only sounds in the otherwise deserted corridorcame from the eerie dry-twig crackle of shorting relays or the pops of dying circuitry.Explosions began to echo through the ship once more, but they were far away fromthe corridor.
　　Threepio turned his smooth, humanlike head to one side. Metallic ears listenedintently. The imitation of a human pose was hardly necessary-Threepio's auditorysensors were fully omnidirectional-but the slim robot had been programmed toblend perfectly among human company. This programming extended even tomimicry of human gestures.
　　"Did you hear that?" he inquired rhetorically of his patient companion, referringto the throbbing sound. "They've shut down the main reactor and the drive." Hisvoice was as full of disbelief and concern as that of any human. One metallic palmrubbed dolefully at a patch of dull gray on his side, where a broken hull brace hadfallen and scored the bronze finish. Threepio was a fastidious machine, and suchthings troubled him.
　　"Madness, this is madness." He shook his head slowly. "This time we'll bedestroyed for sure."
　　Artoo did not comment immediately. Barrel torso tilted backward, powerfullegs gripping the deck; the meter-high robot was engrossed in studying the roofoverhead. Though he did not have a head to cock in a listening posture like hisfriend, Artoo still somehow managed to convey that impression. A series of shortbeeps and chirps issued from his speaker. To even a sensitive human ear they wouldhave been just so much static, but to Threepio they formed words as clear and pure asdirect current.
　　"Yes, I suppose they did have to shut the drive down," Threepio admitted, "butwhat are we going to do now? We can't enter atmosphere with our main stablizer findestroyed. I can't believe we're simply going to surrender."
　　A small band of armed humans suddenly appeared, rifles held at the ready.Their expressions were as worry-wrinkled as their uniforms, and they carried aboutthem the aura of men prepared to die.
　　Threepio watched silently until they had vanished around a far bend in thepassageway, then looked back at Artoo. The smaller robot hadn't shifted from hisposition of listening. Threepio's gaze turned upward also though he knew Artoo'ssenses were slightly sharper than his own.
　　"What is it, Artoo?" A short burst of beeping came in response. Anothermoment, and there was no need for highly attuned sensors. For a minute or twomore, the corridor remained deathly silent. Then a faint scrape, scrape could beheard, like a cat at a door, from somewhere on the ship's hull.
　　When several muffled explosions sounded, Threepio murmured, "They'vebroken in somewhere above us. There's no escape for the Captain this time."Turing he peered down at Artoo. I think we'd better-"
　　The shriek of overstressed metal filled the air before he could finish, and the farend of the passageway was lit by a blinding actinic flash. Somewhere down therethe little cluster of armed crew who had passed by minutes before had encountered theship's attackers.
　　Threepio turned his face and delicate photoreceptors away -just in time to avoidthe fragments of metal that flew down the corridor. At the far end a gaping holeappeared in the roof, and reflective forms like big metal beads began dropping to thecorridor floor. Both robots knew that no machine could match the fluidity withwhich those shapes moved and instantly assumed fighting postures. The newarrivals were humans in armor, not mechanicals.
　　One of them looked straight at Threepio-no, not at him, the panicked robotthrough frantically, but past him. The figure shifted its big rifle around in armoredhands -too late. A beam of intense light struck the head, sending pieces of armor,bone, and flesh flying in all directions.
　　Half the invading Imperial troops turned and began returning fire up thecorridor-aiming past the two robots.
　　"Quick-this way!" Threepio ordered, intending to retreat from the Imperials.Artoo turned with him. They had taken only a couple of steps when they saw therebel crewmen in position ahead, firing down the corridor. In seconds thepassageway was filled with smoke and crisscrossing beams of energy.
　　Red, green and blue bolts ricocheted off polished sections of wall and floor orripped long gashes in metal surfaces. Screams of injured and dying humans -apeculiarly unrobotic sound, Threepio thought-echoed piercingly above the inorganicdestruction.
　　One beam struck near the robot's feet at the same time as a second one burst thewall directly behind him, exposing sparking circuitry and rows of conduits. Theforce of the twin blast tumbled Threepio into the shredded cables, where a dozendifferent currents turned him into a jerking, twisting display.
　　Strange sensations coursed through his metal nerve-ends. They caused no pain,only confusion. Every time he moved and tried to free himself there was anotherviolent crackling as a fresh cluster of componentry broke. The noise and man-madelightning remained constant around him as the battle continued to rage.
　　Smoke began to fill the corridor. Artoo Detoo bustled about trying to help freehis friend. The little robot evidenced a phlegmatic indifference to the raveningenergies filling the passageway. He was built so low that most of the beams passedover him anyhow.
　　"Help!" Threepio yelled, suddenly frightened at a new message from aninternal sensor. "I think something is melting. Free my left leg-the trouble's nearthe pelvic servomotor." Typically, his tone turned abruptly from pleading to berating.
　　"This is all your fault!" he shouted angrily. "I should have known better than totrust the logic of a half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister. I don't know whyyou insisted we leave our assigned stations to come down this stupid access corridor.Not that it matters now. The whole ship must be-" Artoo Detoo cut him off inmidspeech with some angry beepings and hoots of his own, though he continued tocut and pull with precision at the tangled high-voltage cables.
　　"Is that so?" Threepio sneered in reply. "The same to you, you little´!"
　　And exceptionally violent explosion shook the passage, drowning him out. Alung-searing miasma of carbonized component filled the air, obscuring everything.
　　Two meters tall. Bipedal. Flowing black robes trailing from the figure and aface forever masked by a functional if bizarre black metal breath screen -a Dark Lordof the Sith was an awesome, threatening shape as it strode through the corridors of therebel ship.
　　Fear followed the footsteps of all the Dark Lords. The cloud of evil whichclung tight about this particular one was intense enough to cause hardened Imperialtroops to back away, menacing enough to set them muttering nervously amongthemselves. Once-resolute rebel crewmembers ceased resisting, broke and ran inpanic at the sight of the black armor -armor which, though black as it was, was notnearly as dark as the thoughts drifting through the mind within.
　　One purpose, one thought, one obsession dominated that mind now. It burnedin the brain of Darth Vader as he turned down another passageway in the brokenfighter. There smoke was beginning to clear, though the sound of faraway fightingstill resounded through the hull. The battle here had ended and moved on.
　　Only a robot was left to stir freely in the wake of the Dark Lord's passing. SeeThreepio finally stepped clear of the last restraining cable. Somewhere behind himhuman screams could be heard from where relentless Imperial troops were moppingup the last remnants of rebel resistance.
　　Threepio glanced down and saw only scarred deck. As he looked around, hisvoice was full of concern. "Artoo Detoo-where are you?" the smoke seemed topart just a bit more. Threepio found himself staring up the passageway.
　　Artoo Detoo, it seemed, was there. But he wasn't looking in Threepio'sdirection. Instead, the little robot appeared frozen in an attitude of attention.Leaning over him was-it was difficult for even Threepio's electronic photoreceptorsto penetrate the clinging, acidic smoke-a human figure. It was young, slim, and byabstruse human standards of aesthetics, Threepio mused, of a calm beauty. Onesmall hand seemed to be moving over the front of Artoo's torso.
　　Threepio started toward them as the haze thickened once more. But when hereached the end of the corridor, only Artoo stood there, waiting. Threepio peeredpast him, uncertain. Robots were occasionally subject to electronic hallucinations-but why should he hallucinate a human?
　　He shrugged´Then again, why not, especially when one considered theconfusing circumstances of the past hour and the dose of raw current he had recentlyabsorbed. He shouldn't be surprised at anything his concatenated internal circuitconjured up.
　　"Where have you been?" Threepio finally asked. "Hiding, I suppose." Hedecided not to mention the maybe-human. If it had been a hallucination, he wasn'tgoing to give Artoo the satisfaction of knowing how badly recent events had unsettledhis logic circuits.
　　"They'll be coming back this way," he went on, nodding down the corridor andnot giving the small automation a chance to reply, "looking for human survivors.What are we going to do now? They won't trust the word of rebel-owned machinesthat we don't know anything of value. We'll be sent to the spice mines of Kessel ortaken apart for spare components for other, less deserving robots. That's if theydon't consider us potential program traps and blow us apart on sight. If we don't´"But Artoo had already turned and was ambling quickly back down the passageway.
　　"Wait, where are you going? Haven't you been listening to me?" Utteringcurses in several languages, some purely mechanical, Threepio raced fluidly after hisfriend. The Artoo unit, he thought to himself, could be downright close-circuitedwhen it wanted to.
　　Outside the galactic cruiser's control center the corridor was crowded with sullenprisoners gathered by Imperial troops. Some lay wounded, some dying. Severalofficers had been separated from the enlisted ranks and stood in a small group bythemselves, bestowing belligerent looks and threats on the silent knot of troopsholding them at bay.
　　As if on command, everyone-Imperial troops as well as rebels-became silentas massive capped from came into view from behind a turn in the passage. Two ofthe heretofore resolute, obstinate rebel officers began to shake. Stopping before oneof the men, the towering figure reached out wordlessly. A massive hand closedaround the man's neck and lifted him off the deck. The rebel officer's eyes bulged,but he kept his silence.
　　And Imperial officer, his armored helmet shoved back to reveal a recent scarwhere and energy beam had penetrated his shielding, scrambled down out of thefighter's control room, shaking his head briskly. "Nothing, sir. Informationretrieval system's been wiped clean."
　　Darth Vader acknowledged this news with a barely perceptible nod. Theimpenetrable mask turned to regard the officer he was torturing. Metal0clad fingerscontracted. Reaching up, the prisoner desperately tried to pry them loose, but to noavail.
　　"Where is the data you intercepted?" Vader rumbled dangerously. "What haveyou done with the information tapes?"
　　"We-intercepted-no information," the dangling officer gurgled, barely ableto breathe. From somewhere deep within, he dredged up a squeal of outrage. "Thisis a ´councilor vessel´ Did you not see our mission."
　　"Chaos take your mission!" Vader growled. "Where are those tapes!" Hesqueezed harder, the threat in his grip implicit.
　　When he finally replied, the officer's voice was a bare, choked whisper."Only ´ the Commander knows."
　　"This ship carries the system crest of Alderaan," Vader growled, the gargoyle-like breath mask leaning close. "Is any of the royal family on board? Who are youcarrying?" Thick fingers tightened further, and the officer's struggles became moreand more frantic. His last words were muffled and choked past intelligibility.
　　Vader was not pleased. Even though the figure went limp with an awful,unquestionable finality, that hand continued to tighten, producing a chilling snappingand popping of bone, like a dog padding on plastic. Then with a disgusted wheezeVader finally threw the doll-form of the dead man against a far wall. SeveralImperial troops ducked out of the way just in time to avoid the grisly missile.
　　The massive form whirled unexpectedly, and Imperial officers shrank under thatbaleful sculptured component by component, until you find those tapes. As for thepassengers, if any, I want them alive." He paused a moment, then added, "Quickly!"Officers and men nearly fell over themselves in their haste to leave-not necessarilyto carry out Vader's orders, but simply to retreat from that malevolent presence.
　　Artoo Detoo finally came to a halt in an empty corridor devoid of smoke and thesigns of battle. A worried, confused Threepio pulled up behind him.
　　"You've led us through half the ship, and to what´?" He broke off, staring indisbelief as the squat robot reached up with one clawed limb and snapped the seal ona lifeboat hatch. Immediately a red warning light came on and a low hootingsounded in the corridor.
　　Threepio looked wildly in all directions, but the passageway remained empty.When he looked back, Artoo was already working his way into the cramped boat pod.It was just large enough to hold several humans, and its design was not laid out toaccommodate mechanicals. Artoo had some trouble negotiating the awkward littlecompartment.
　　"Hey," a startled Threepio called, admonishing, "you're not permitted in there!It's restricted to humans only. We just might be able to convince the Imperials thatwe're not rebel programmed and are too valuable to break up, but if someone sees youin there we haven't got a chance. Come on out."
　　Somehow Artoo had succeeded in wedging his body into position in front of theminiature control board. He cocked his body slightly and threw a stream of loudbeeps and whistles at his reluctant companion.
　　Threepio listened. He couldn't frown, but he managed to give a goodimpression of doing so. "Mission´what mission? What are you talking about?You sound like you haven't got an integrated logic terminal left in your brain.No´no more adventures. I'll take my chances with the Imperials-and I'm notgetting in there."
　　An angry electronic twang came from the Artoo unit."Don't call me a mindless philosopher," Threepio snapped back, "you overweight,unstreamlined glob of grease!"
　　Threepio was concocting an additional rejoinder when an explosion blew out theback wall of the corridor. Dust and metal debris whooshed through the narrow sub-passageway, followed instantly by a series of secondary explosions. Flames beganjumping hungrily from the exposed interior wall; reflection off Threepio's isolatedpatches of polished skin.
　　Muttering the electronic equivalent of consigning his soul to the unknown, thelanky robot jumped into the audibly as Artoo activated the safety door behind him.The smaller robot flipped a series of switches, snapped back a cover, and pressedthree buttons in a certain sequence. With the thunder of explosive latches the lifepod ejected from the crippled fighter.
　　When word came over the communicators that the last pocket of resistance onthe rebel ship had been cleaned out, the Captain of the Imperial cruiser relaxedconsiderably. He was listening with pleasure to proceedings on captured vesselwhen one of his chief gunnery officers called to him. Moving to the man's position,the Captain stared into the circular viewscreen and saw a tiny dot dropping awaytoward the fiery world below.
　　"There goes another pod, sir. Instructions?" The officer's hand hovered overa computerized energy battery.
　　Casually, confident in the firepower and total control under his command, theCaptain studied the nearby readouts monitoring the pod. All of them read blank.
　　"Hold your fire, Lieutenant Hija. Instruments show no life forms aboard. Thepod's release mechanism must have short-circuited or received a false instruction.Don't waste you power." He turned away, to listen with satisfaction to the reports ofcaptured men and material coming from the rebel ship.
　　Glare from exploding panels and erupting circuitry reflected crazily off thearmor of the lead storm trooper as he surveyed the passageway ahead. He was aboutto turn and call for those behind to follow him forward when he noticed somethingmoving off to one side. It appeared to be crouching back in a small, dark alcove.Holding his pistol ready, he moved cautiously forward and peered into the recess.
　　A small, shivering figure clad in flowing white hugged the back of the recess andstared up at the man. Now he could see that he faced a young woman, and herphysical description fit that of the one individual the Dark Lord was most interested in.The trooper grinned behind his helmet. A lucky encounter for him. He would becommended.
　　Within the armor his head turned slightly, directing his voice to the tinycondenser microphone. "Here she is," he called to those behind him. "Set for stunforc-"
　　He never finished the sentence, just as he would never receive the hoped-forcommendation. Once his attention turned from the girl to his communicator hershivering vanished with starling speed. The energy pistol he had held out of sightbehind her came up and around as she burst from her hiding place.
　　The trooper who had been unlucky enough to find her fell first, his head a massof melted bone and metal. The same fate met the second armored from coming upfast behind him. Then a bright green energy pole touched the woman's side and sheslumped instantly to the deck, the pistol still locked in her small palm.
　　Metal-encased shapes clustered around her. One whose arm bore the insigniaof a lower officer knelt and turned her over. He studied the paralyzed form with apracticed eye.
　　"She'll be all right," he finally declared, looking up his subordinates. "Reportto Lord Vader."
　　Threepio stared, mesmerized, out the small view-port set in the front of the tinyescape pod as the hot yellow eye of Tatooine began to swallow them up.Somewhere behind them, he knew, the crippled fighter and the Imperial cruiser werereceding to imperceptibility.
　　That was fine with him. If they landed near a civilized city, he would seekelegant employment in a halcyon atmosphere, something more befitting his status andtraining. These past months had gifted him with entirely too much excitement andunpredictability for a mere machine.
　　Artoo's seemingly random manipulation of the pod controls promised anythingbut a smooth landing, however. Threepio regarded his squat companion withconcern.
　　"Are you sure you know how to pilot this thing?"
　　Artoo replied with a noncommittal whistle that did nothing to alter the tallerrobot's jangled state of mind.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  