  

A New Hope
III

　　The burnished conference table was as soulless and unyielding as the mood of theeight Imperial Senators and officers ranged around it. Imperial troopers stood guardat the entrance to the chamber, which was sparse and coldly lit from lights in the tableand walks. One of the youngest of the eight was declaiming. He exhibited theattitude of one who had climbed far and fast by methods best not examined tooclosely. General Tagge did possess a certain twisted genius, but it was only partlythat ability which had lifted him to his present exalted position. Other noisometalents had proven equally efficacious.
　　Though his uniform was as neatly molded and his body as cleans as that ofanyone else in the room, none of the remaining seven cared to touch him. A certainsliminess clung cloyingly to him, a sensation inferred rather than tactile. Despitethis, many respected him. Or feared him.
　　"I tell you, he's gone too far this time," the General was insisting vehemently."This is Sith Lord inflicted on us at the urging of the Emperor will be our undoing.Until the battle station is fully operational, we remain vulnerable.
　　"Some of you still don't seem to realize how well equipped and organized therebel Alliance is. Their vessel are excellent, their pilots better. And they arepropelled by something more powerful than mere engines: this perverse, reactionaryfanaticism of theirs. They're more dangerous than most of you realize."
　　An older officer, with facial scars so deeply engraved that even the best cosmeticsurgery could not fully repair them, shifted nervously in his chair. "Dangerous toyour starfleet, General Tagge, but not to this battle station." Wizened eyes hoppedfrom man to man, traveling around the table. "I happen to think Lord Vader knowswhat he's doing. The rebellion will continue only as long as those cowards have asanctuary, a place where their pilots can relax and their machines can be repaired."
　　Tagge objected. "I beg to differ with you, Romodi. I think the construction ofthis station has more to do with Governor Tarkin's bid for personal power andrecognition than with any justifiable military strategy. Within the Senate the rebelswill continue to increase their support as long-"
　　The sound of the single doorway sliding aside and the guards snapping toattention cut him off. His head turned, as did everyone else's.
　　Two individuals as different in appearance as they were united in objective hadentered the chamber. The nearest to Tagge was a thin, hatchet-faced man with hairand form borrowed from an old broom and the expression of a quiescent piranha.The Grand Moff Tarkin, Governor of numerous outlying Imperial territories, wasdwarfed by broad, armored bulk of Lord Darth Vader.
　　Tagge, unintimidated but subdued, slowly resumed his seat as Tarkin assumedhis place at the end of the conference table. Vader stood next to him, a dominatingpresence behind the Governor's chair. For a minute Tarkin stared directly at Tagge,then glanced away as if he had seen nothing. Tagge fumed but remained silent.
　　As Tarkin's gaze roved around the table a razor-thin smile of satisfactionremained frozen in his features. "The Imperial Senate will no longer be of anyconcern to us, gentlemen. I have just receive word that the Emperor haspermanently dissolved that misguided body."
　　A ripple of astonishment ran through the assembly. "The last remnants," Tarkincontinued, "of the Old Republic have finally been swept away."
　　"This is impossible," Tagge interjected. "How will the Emperor maintaincontrol of the Imperial bureau-crazy?"
　　"Senatorial representation has not been formally abolished, you mustunderstand," Tarkin explained. "It has merely been superseded for the-" he smileda bit more-"duration of the emergency. Regional Governors will now have directcontrol and a free hand in administering their territories. This means that theImperial presence can at last be brought to bear properly on the vacillating worlds ofthe Empire. From now on, fear will keep potentially traitorous local government inline. Fear of the Imperial fleet-and fear of this battle station."
　　"And what of the existing rebellion?" Tagge wanted to know.
　　"If the rebels somehow managed to gain access to a complete technical schemaof this battle station, it is remotely possible that they might be able to locate aweakness susceptible to minor exploitation." Tarkin's smile shifted to a smirk. "Ofcourse, we all know how well guarded, how carefully protected, such vital data is. Itcould not possibly fall into rebel hands."
　　"The technical data to which you are obliquely referring," rumbled Darth Vaderangrily, "will soon be back in our hands. If-"
　　Tarkin shook the Dark Lord off, something no one else at the table would havedared to do. "It is immaterial. Any attack made against this station by the rebelswould be a suicidal gesture, suicidal and useless-regardless of any information theymanaged to obtain. After many long years of secretive construction," he declaredwith evident pleasure, "this station has become the decisive force in this part of theuniverse. Events in this region of the galaxy will no longer be determined by fate,by decree, or by any other agency. They will be decided by this station!"
　　A huge metal-clad hand gestured slightly, and one of the filled cups on the tabledrifted responsively into it. With a slightly admonishing tone the Dark Lordcontinued. "Don't become too proud of this technological terror you've spawned,Tarkin. The ability to destroy a city, a world, a whole system is still insignificantwhen set against the force."
　　"The Force," Tagge sneered. "Don't try to frighten us with your sorcerer's way,Lord Vader. Your sad devotion to that ancient mythology has not helped you toconjure up those stolen tapes, or gifted you with clairvoyance sufficient to locate therebel's hidden fortress. Why, it's enough to make one laugh fit to-"
　　Tagge's eyes abruptly bulged and his hands went to his throat as he began to turna disconcerting shade of blue.
　　"I find," Vader ventured mildly, "this lack of faith disturbing."
　　"Enough of this," Tarkin snapped, distressed. "Vader, release him. Thisbickering among ourselves is pointless."
　　Vader shrugged as if it were of no consequence. Tagge slumped in his seat,rubbing his throat, his wary gaze never leaving the dark giant.
　　"Lord Vader will provide us with the location of the rebel fortress by the timethis station is certified operational," Tarkin declared. "That known, we will proceedto it and destroy it utterly, crushing this pathetic rebellion in one swift stoke."
　　"As the Emperor wills it," Vader added, not without sarcasm, "so shall it be."
　　If any of the powerful men seated around the table found this disrespectful toneobjectionable, a glance at Tagge was sufficient to dissuade them from mentioning it.
　　The dim prison reeked of rancid oil and stale lubricants, a veritable metalliccharnel house. Threepio endured the discomfiting atmosphere as best he could. Itwas a constant battle to avoid being thrown by every unexpected bounce into thewalls or into a fellow machine.
　　To conserve power-and also to avoid the steady stream of complaints from histaller companion-Artoo Detoo had shut down all exterior functions. He lay inertamong a pile of secondary parts, sublimely unconcerned at the moment as to their fate.
　　"Will this never end?" Threepio was moaning as another violent jolt roughlyjostled the inhabitants of the prison. He had already formulated and discarded half ahundred horrible ends. He was certain only that their eventual disposition was sureto be worse than anything he could imagine.
　　Then, quite without warning, something more unsettling than even the mostbattering bump took place. The sandcrawler's whine died, and the vehicle came to ahalt-almost as if in response to Threepio's query. A nervous buzz rose from thosemechanicals who still retained a semblance of sentience as they speculated on theirpresent location and probable fate.
　　At least Threepio was no longer ignorant of his captors or of their likely motives.Local captives had explained the nature of the quasi-human mechanic migrants, thejawas. Traveling in their enormous mobile fortress-homes, they scoured the mostinhospitable regions of Tatooine in search of valuable minerals-and salvageablemachinery. They had never been seen outside of their protective cloaks andsandmasks, so no one knew exactly what they looked like. But they were reputed tobe extraordinarily ugly. Threepio did not have to be convinced.
　　Leaning over his still-motionless companion, he began a steady shaking of thebarrel-like torso. Epidermal sensors were activated on the Artoo unit, and the lightson the front side of the little robot began a sequential awakening.
　　"Wake up, wake up," Threepio urged. "We've stopped someplace." Likeseveral of the other, more imaginative robots, his eyes were warily scanning metalwalls, expecting a hidden panel to slide aside at any moment and a giant mechanicalarm to come probing and fumbling for him.
　　"No doubt about it, we're doomed," he recited mournfully as Artoo rightedhimself, returning to full activation. "Do you think they'll melt us down?" Hebecame silent for several minutes, then added, "It's this waiting that gets to me."Abruptly the far wall of the chamber slid aside and the blinding white glare of aTatooine morning rushed in on them. Threepio's sensitive photoreceptors were hardpressed to adjust in time to prevent serious damage.
　　Several of the repulsive-looking jawas scrambled agilely into the chamber, stilldressed in the same swathing and filth Threepio had observed on them before.Using hard weapons of an unknown design, they prodded at the machines. Certainof them, Threepio noted with a mental swallow, did not stir.
　　Ignoring the immobile ones, the jawas herded those still capable of movementoutside, Artoo and Threepio among them. Both robots found themselves part of anuneven mechanical line.
　　Shielding his eyes against the glare, Threepio saw that five of them werearranged alongside the huge sandcrawler. Thoughts of escape did not enter his mind.Such a concept was utterly alien to a mechanical. The more intelligent a robot was,the more abhorrent and unthinkable the concept. Besides, had he tried to escape,built-in sensors would have detected the critical logic malfunction and melted everycircuit in his brain.
　　Instead, he studied the small domes and vaporators that indicated the presence ofa larger underground human homestead. Though he was unfamiliar with this type ofconstruction, all signs pointed to a modest, if isolated, habitation. Thoughts of beingdismembered for parts or slaving in some high-temperature mine slowly faded. Hisspirits rose correspondingly.
　　"Maybe this won't be so bad after all," he murmured hopefully. "If we canconvince these bipedal vermin to unload us here, we may enter into sensible humanservice again instead of being melted into slag."
　　Artoo's sole reply was a noncommittal chirp. Both machines became silent asthe jawas commenced scurrying around them, striving to straighten one poor machinewith a badly bent spine, to disguise a dent or scrape with liquid and dust.
　　As two of them bustled about, working on his sand-coated skin, Threepio foughtto stifle an expression of disgust. One of his many human-analog functions was theability to react naturally to offensive odors. Apparently hygiene was unknownamong the jawas. But he was certain no good would come of pointing this out tothem.
　　Small insects drifted in clouds about the faces of the jawas, who ignored them.Apparently the tiny individualized plagues were regarded as just a different sort ofappendage, like an extra arm or leg.
　　So intent was Threepio on his observation that he failed to notice the two figuresmoving toward them from the region of the largest dome. Artoo had to nudge himslightly before he looked up.
　　The first man wore an air of grim, semi-perpetual exhaustion, sandblasted intohis face by too many years of arguing with a hostile environment. His graying hairwas frozen in tangled twists like gypsum helicites. Dust frosted his face, clothes,hands, and thoughts. But the body, if not the spirit, was still powerful.
　　Proportionately dwarfed by his uncle's wrestler-like body, Luke strode slump-shouldered in his shadow, his present attitude one of dejection rather than exhaustion.He had a great deal on his mind, and it had very little to do with farming. Mostly itinvolved the rest of his life, and the commitment made by his best friend who hadrecently departed beyond the blue sky above to enter a harsher, yet more rewardingcareer.
　　The bigger man stopped before the assembly and entered into a peculiar squeakydialogue with the jawa in charge. When they wished it, the jawas could beunderstood.
　　Luke stood nearby, listening indifferently. Then he shuffled along behind hisuncle as the latter began inspecting the five machines, pausing only to mutter anoccasional word or two to his nephew. It was hard to pay attention, even though heknew he ought to be learning.
　　"Luke-oh, Luke!" a voice called.
　　Turning away from the conversation, which consisted of the lead jawa extollingthe unmatched virtues of all five machines and his uncle countering with derision,Luke walked over to the near edge of the subterranean courtyard and peered down.
　　A stout woman with the expression of a misplaced sparrow was busy workingamong decorative plants. She looked up at him. "Be sure and tell Owen that if hebuys a translator to make sure it speaks Bocce, Luke."
　　Turning, Luke looked back over his shoulder and studied the motley collection oftired machines. "It looks like we don't have much of a choice," he called back downto her, "but I'll remind him anyway."
　　She nodded up at him and he turned to rejoin his uncle.
　　Apparently Owen Lars had already come to a decision, having settled on a smallsemi-agricultural robot. This one was similar in shape to Artoo Detoo, save that itsmultiple subsidiary arms were tipped with different functions. At an order it hadstepped out of the line and was wobbling along behind Owen and the temporarilysubdued jawa.
　　Proceeding to the end of the line, the farmer's eyes narrowed as he concentratedon the sand-scoured but still flashy bronze finish of the tall, humanoid Threepio.
　　"I presume you function," he grumbled at the robot. "Do you know customsand protocol?"
　　"Do I know protocol?" Threepio echoed as the farmer looked him up and down.Threepio was determined to embarrass the jawa when it came to selling his abilities."Do I know protocol! Why, it's my primary function. I am also well-"
　　"Don't need a protocol 'droid," the farmer snapped dryly.
　　"I don't blame you, sir," Threepio rapidly agreed. "I couldn't be more inagreement. What could be more of a wasteful luxury in a climate like this? Forsomeone of your interests, sir, a protocol 'droid would be a useless waste of money.No, sir-versatility is my middle name. See Vee Threepio-Vee for versatility-atyour service. I've been programmed for over thirty secondary functions that requireonly´"
　　"I need," the farmer broke in, demonstrating imperious disregard for Threepio'sas yet unenumerated secondary functions, "a 'droid that knows something aboutbinary language of independently programmable moisture vaporators."
　　"Vaporators! We are both in luck," Threepio countered. "My first post-primary assignment was in programming binary load lifters. Very similar inconstruction and memory-function to your vaporators. You could almost say´"
　　Luke tapped his uncle on the shoulder and whispered something in his ear.His uncle nodded, then looked back at the attentive Threepio again.
　　"Do you speak Bocce?"
　　"Of course, sir," Threepio replied, confident for a change with a wholly honestanswer. "It's like a second language to me. "I'm as fluent in Bocce as-"
　　the farmer appeared determined never to allow him to conclude a sentence."Shut up." Owen Lars looked down at the jawa. "I'll take this one, too."
　　"Shutting up, sir," responded Threepio quickly, hard put to conceal his glee atbeing selected.
　　"Take them down to the garage, Luke," his uncle instructed him. "I want you tohave both of them cleaned up by suppertime."
　　Luke looked askance at his uncle. "But I was going into Tosche station to pickup some new power converters and´"
　　"Don't lie to me, Luke," his uncle warned him sternly. "I don't mind youwasting time with your idle friends, but only after you've finished your chores. Nowhop to it-and before supper, mind."
　　Downcast, Luke directed his words irritably to Threepio and the smallagricultural robot. He knew better than to argue with his uncle.
　　"Follow me, you two." They started for the garage as Owen entered into pricenegotiations with the jawa.
　　Other jawas were leading the three remaining machines back into thesandcrawler when something let out an almost pathetic beep. Luke turned to see aArtoo unit breaking formation and starting toward him. It was immediatelyrestrained by a jawa wielding a control device that activated the disk sealed on themachine's front plate.
　　Luke studied the rebellious 'droid curiously. Threepio started to say something,considered the circumstances and thought better of it. Instead, he remained silent,staring straight ahead.
　　A minute later, something pinged sharply nearby. Glancing down, Luke sawthat a head plate had popped off the top of the agricultural 'droid. A grinding noisewas coming from within. A second later the machine was throwing internalcomponents all over the sandy ground.
　　Leaning close, Luke peered inside the expectorating mechanical. He called out,"Uncle Owen! The servomotor-central on this cultivator unit is shot. Look´"He reached in, tried to adjust the device, and pulled away hurriedly when it began awild sparking. The odor of crisped insulation and corroded circuitry filled the cleardesert air with a pungency redolent of mechanized death.
　　Owen Lars glared down at the nervous jawa. "What kind of junk are you tryingto push on us?"
　　The jawa responded loudly, indignantly, while simultaneously taking a couple ofprecautionary steps away from the big human. He was distressed that the man wasbetween him and the soothing safely of the sandcrawler.
　　Meanwhile, Artoo Detoo had scuttled out of the group of machines being ledback toward the mobile fortress. Doing so turned out to be simple enough, since allthe jawas had their attention focused on the argument between their leader and Luke'suncle.
　　Lacking sufficient armature for wild gesticulation, the Artoo unit suddenly letout a high whistle, then broke it off when it was apparent he had gained Threepio'sattention.
　　Tapping Luke gently on the shoulder, the tall 'droid whispered conspiratoriallyinto his ear. "If I might say so, young sir, that Artoo unit is a real bargain. In topcondition. I don't believe these creatures have any idea what good shape he's reallyin. Don't let all the sand and dust deceive you."
　　Luke was in the habit of making instant decisions-for good or bad-anyway."Uncle Owen!" he called.
　　Breaking off the argument without taking his attention from the jawa, his uncleglanced quickly at him. Luke gestured toward Artoo Detoo. "We don't want anytrouble. What about swapping this-" he indicated the burned-outagricultural 'droid-"for that one?"
　　The older man studied the Artoo unit professionally, then considered the jawas.Though inherently cowards, the tiny desert scavengers could be pushed too far. Thesandcrawler could flatten the homestead-at the risk of inciting the humancommunity to lethal vengeance.
　　Faced with a no-win situation for wither side if he pressed too hard, Owenresumed the argument for show's sake before gruffly assenting. The head jawaconsented reluctantly to the trade, and both sides breathed a mental sigh of relief thathostilities had been avoided. While the jawa bowed and whined with impatientgreed, Owen paid him off.
　　Meanwhile, Luke had led the two robots toward an opening in the dry ground.A few seconds later they were striding down a ramp kept clear of drifting sand byelectrostatic repellers.
　　"Don't you ever forget this," Threepio muttered to Artoo, leaning over thesmaller machine. "Why I stick my neck out for you, when all you ever bring me istrouble, is beyond my capacity to comprehend."
　　The passage widened into garage proper, which was cluttered with tools andsections of farming machinery. Many looked heavily used, some to the point ofcollapse. But the lights were comforting to both 'droid, and there was a hominess tothe chamber which hinted at a tranquillity not experienced by either machine for along time. Near the center of the garage was a large tub, and the aroma drifting fromit made Threepio's principal olfactory sensors twitch.
　　Luke grinned, noting the robot's reaction. "Yes, it's a lubrication bath." Heeyed the tall bronze robot appraisingly. "And from the looks of it, you could useabout a week's submergence. But we can't afford that so you'll have to settle for anafternoon." Then Luke turned his attention to Artoo Detoo, walking up to him andflipping open a panel that shielded numerous gauges.
　　"As for you," he continued, with a whistle of surprise, "I don't know how you'vekept running. Not surprising, knowing the jawas' reluctance to part with any erg-fraction they don't have to. It's recharge time for you." He gestured toward a largepower unit.
　　Artoo Detoo followed Luke's gesture, then beeped once and waddled over theboxy construction. Finding the proper cord, he automatically flipped open a paneland plugged the triple prongs into his face.
　　Threepio had walked over to the large cistern, which was filled almost full witharomatic cleansing oil. With a remarkably humanlike sigh he lowered himselfslowly into the tank.
　　"You two behave yourselves," Luke cautioned them as he moved to a small two-man sky hopper. A powerful little suborbital spacecraft, it rested in the hangarsection of the garage-workshop. "I've got work of my own to do."
　　Unfortunately, Luke's energies were still focused on his farewell encounter withBiggs, so that hours later he had finished few of his chores. Thinking about hisfriend's departure, Luke was running a caressing hand over the damaged port fin ofthe 'hopper-the fin he had damaged while running down an imaginary Tie fighter inthe wrenching twists and turns of a narrow canyon. That was when the projectingledge had clipped him as effectively as an energy beam.
　　Abruptly something came to a boil within him. With atypical violence he threwa power wrench across a worktable nearby. "It just isn't fair!" he declared to no onein particular. His voice dropped disconsolately. "Biggs is right. I'll never get outof here. He's planning rebellion against the Empire, and I'm trapped on a blight of afarm."
　　"I beg your pardon, sir."
　　Luke spun, startled, but it was only the tall 'droid, Threepio. The contrast in therobot was striking compared with Luke's initial sight of him. Bronze-colored alloygleamed in the overhead lights of the garage, cleaned of pits and dust by the powerfuloils.
　　"Is there anything I might do to help?" the robot asked solicitously.
　　Luke studied the machine, and as he did so some of his anger drained away.There was no point in yelling cryptically at a robot.
　　"I doubt it," he replied, "unless you can alter time and speed up the harvest. Orelse teleport me off this sandpile under Uncle Owen's nose."
　　Sarcasm was difficult for even an extremely sophisticated robot to detect, soThreepio considered the question objectively before finally replying, "I don't think so,sir. I'm only a third-degree 'droid and not very knowledgeable about such things astransatomic physics." Suddenly, the events of the past couple of days seemed tocatch up with him all at once. "As a matter of fact, young sir," Threepio went onwhile looking around him with fresh vision, "I'm not even sure which planet I'm on."
　　Luke chuckled sardonically and assumed a mocking pose. "If there's brightcenter to this universe, you're on the world farthest from it."
　　"Yes, Luke sir."
　　The youth shook his head irritably. "Never mind the 'sir'-it's just Luke.And this world is called Tatooine."
　　Threepio nodded slightly. "Thank you, Luke s-Luke. I am See Threepio,human-droid relations specialist." He jerked a casual metal thumb back toward therecharge unit. "That is my companion, Artoo Detoo."
　　"Pleased to meet you, Threepio," Luke said easily. "You too, Artoo."Walking across the garage, he checked a gauge on the smaller machine's front panel,plugging the charge cord he saw something, which made him frown and lean close.
　　"Something wrong, Luke?" Threepio inquired.
　　Luke went to a nearby tool wall and selected a small many-armed device. "Idon't know yet, Threepio."
　　Returning to the recharger, Luke bent over Artoo and began scraping at severalbumps in the small 'droid's top with a chromed pick. Occasionally he jerked backsharply as bits of corrosion were flicked into the air by the tiny tool.
　　Threepio watched, interested, as Luke worked. "There's a lot of strange carbonscoring here of a seen a lot of action out of the ordinary."
　　"Indeed, sir," Threepio admitted, forgetting to drop the honorific. This timeLuke was too absorbed elsewhere to correct him. "Sometimes I'm amazed we're inas good shape as we are." He added as an afterthought, while still shying away fromthe thrust of Luke's question, "What with the rebellion and all."
　　Despite his caution, it seemed to Threepio that he must have given somethingaway, for an almost jawa-like blaze appeared in Luke's eyes. "You know about therebellion against the Empire?" he demanded.
　　"In a way," Threepio confessed reluctantly. "The rebellion was responsible forour coming into your service. We are refugees, you se." He did not add fromwhere.
　　Not that Luke appeared to care. "Refugees!" Then I did see a space battle!"He rambled on rapidly, excited. "Tell me where you've been-in how manyencounters. How is the rebellion going? Does the Empire take it seriously? Haveyou seen many ships destroyed?"
　　"A bit slower, please, sir," Threepio pleaded. "You misinterpret our status.We were innocent bystanders. Our involvement with the rebellion was of the mostmarginal nature.
　　"As to battles, we were in several, I think. It is difficult to tell when one is notdirectly in contact with the actual battle machinery." He shrugged neatly. "Beyondthat, there is not much to say. Remember, sir, I am little more than a cosmeticizedinterpreter and not very good at telling stories or relating histories, and even lessproficient at embellishing them. I am a very literal machine."
　　Luke turned away, disappointed, and returned to his cleaning of Artoo Detoo.Additional scraping turned up something puzzling enough to demand his full attention.A small metal fragment was tightly lodged between two bar conduits that wouldnormally form a linkage. Setting down the delicate pick, Luke switched to a largerinstrument.
　　"Well, my little friend," he murmured, "you've got something jammed in herereal good." As he pushed and pried Luke directed half his attention to Threepio."Were you on a star freighter or was it-"
　　metal gave way with a powerful crack, and the recoil sent Luke tumbling headover heels. Getting to his feet, he started to curse-then froze, motionless.
　　The front of the Artoo unit had begun to glow, exuding a three-dimensionalimage less than one-third of a meter square but precisely defined. The portraitformed within the box was so exquisite that in a couple of minutes Luke discoveredhe was out of breath-because he had forgotten to breath.
　　Despite a superficial sharpness, the image flickered and jiggled unsteadily, as ifthe recording had been made and installed with haste. Luke stared at the foreigncolors being projected into the prosaic atmosphere of the garage and started to form aquestion. But it was never finished. The lips on the figure moved, and the girlspoke-or rather, seemed to speak. Luke knew the aural accompaniment wasgenerated somewhere within Artoo Detoo's squat torso.
　　"Obi-wan Kenobi," the voice implored huskily, "help me! You're my onlyremaining hope." A burst of static dissolved the face momentarily. Then itcoalesced again, and once more the voice repeated, "Obi-wan Kenobi, you're my onlyremaining hope."
　　With a raspy hum the hologram continued. Luke sat perfectly still for a longmoment, considering what he was seeing, then he blinked and directed his words tothe Artoo unit.
　　"What's this all about, Artoo Detoo?"
　　the stubby 'droid shifted slightly, the cubish portrait shifting with him, andbeeped what sounded vaguely like a sheepish reply.
　　Threepio appeared as mystified as Luke. "What is that?" he inquired sharply,gesturing at the speaking portrait and then at Luke. "You were asked a question.What and who is that, and how are you originating it-and why?"
　　The Artoo unit generated a beep of surprise, for all the world as if just noticingthe hologram. This was followed by a whistling stream of information.
　　Threepio digested the data, tried to frown, couldn't, and strove to convey his ownconfusion via the tone of his voice. "He insist it's nothing, sir. Merely amalfunction-old data. A tape that should have been erased but was missed. Heinsists we pay it no mind."
　　That was like telling Luke to ignore a cache of Durindfires he might stumbleover in the desert. "Who is she?" he demanded, staring enraptured at the hologram."She's beautiful."
　　"I really don't know who she is," Threepio confessed honestly. "I think shemight have been a passenger on our last voyage. From what I recall, she was apersonage of some importance. This might have something to do with the fact thatour Captain was attach└ to-"
　　Luke cut him off, savoring the way sensuous lips formed and reformed thesentence fragment. "Is there any more to this recording? It sounds like it'sincomplete." Getting to his feet, Luke reached out for the Artoo unit.
　　The robot moved backward and produced whistles of such frantic concern thatLuke hesitated and held off reaching for the internal controls.
　　Threepio was shocked. "Behave yourself, Artoo," he finally chastised hiscompanion. "You're going to get us into trouble." He had vision of the both ofthem being packed up as uncooperative and shipped back to the jawas, which wasenough to make him imitate a shudder.
　　"It's all right-he's our master now." Threepio indicated Luke. "You cantrust him." I feel that he has our best interests in mind."
　　Detoo appeared to hesitate, uncertain. Then he whistled and beeped a longcomplexity at his friend.
　　"Well?" Luke prompted impatiently.
　　Threepio paused before replying. "He says that he is the property of one Obi-wan Kenobi, a resident of this world. Of this very region, in fact. The sentencefragment we are hearing is part of a private message intended for this person."
　　Threepio shook his head slowly. "Quite frankly, sir, I don't know what he'stalking about. Our last master was Captain Colton. I never heard Artoo mention aprior master. I've certainly never heard of an Obi-wan Kenobi. But with all we'vebeen through," he concluded apologetically, "I'm afraid his logic circuits have gottena bit scrambled. He's become decidedly eccentric at times." And while Lukeconsidered this turn of events, Threepio took the opportunity to throw Artoo a furiouslook of warning.
　　"Obi-wan Kenobi," Luke recited thoughtfully. His expression suddenlybrightened. "Say´I wonder if he could be referring to old Ben Kenobi."
　　"Begging your pardon," Threepio gulped, astonished beyond measure, "but youactually know of such a person?"
　　"Not exactly," he admitted in a more subdued voice. "I don't know anyonenamed Obi-wan-but old Ben lives somewhere out on the fringe of the Western DuneSea. He's kind of a local character-a hermit. Uncle Owen and a few of the otherfarmers say he's a sorcerer.
　　"He comes around once in a while to trade things. I hardly ever talk to him,though. My uncle usually runs him off." He paused and glanced across at thesmall robot again. "But I never heard that old Ben owned a 'droid of any kind. Atleast, none that I ever heard tell of."
　　Luke's gaze was drawn irresistibly back to the hologram. "I wonder who she is.She must be important-especially if what you told me just now is true, Threepio.She sounds and looks as if she's in some kind of trouble. Maybe the message isimportant. We ought to hear the rest of it."
　　He reached again for the Artoo's internal controls, and the robot scurriedbackward again, squeaking a blue streak.
　　"He says there's a restraining separator bolt that's circuiting out his self-motivation components." Threepio translated. "He suggests that if you move thebolt he might be able to repeat the entire message," Threepio finished uncertainly.When Luke continued to stare at the portrait, Threepio added, more loudly "Sir!"
　　Luke shook himself. "What´? Oh, yes." He considered the request.Then he moved and peered into the open panel. This time Artoo didn't retreat.
　　"I see it, I think. Well, I guess you're too small to run away from me if I takethis off. I wonder what someone would be sending a message to old Ben for."
　　Selecting the proper tool, Luke reached down into the exposed circuitry andpopped the restraining bolt free. The first noticeable result of this action was thatthe portrait disappeared.
　　Luke stood back. "There, now." There was an uncomfortable pause duringwhich the hologram showed no sign of returning. "Where did she go?" Lukefinally prompted. "Make her come back. Play the entire message, Artoo Detoo."
　　An innocent-sounding beep came from the robot. Threepio appearedembarrassed and nervous as he translated. "He said. 'What message?' "
　　Threepio's attention turned half angrily to his companion. "What message?You know what message! The one you just played a fragment of for us. The oneyou're hauling around inside tour recalcitrant, rust-ridden innards, you stubborn bunkof junk!"
　　Artoo sat and hummed softly to himself.
　　"I'm sorry, sir," Threepio said slowly, "but he shows signs of having developedan alarming flutter in his obedience-rational module. Perhaps if we-"
　　a voice from down a corridor interrupted him. "Luke´oh, Luke-come todinner!"
　　Luke hesitated, then rose and turned away from the puzzling little 'droid."Okay," he called, "I'm coming. Aunt Beru!" He lowered his voice as he spoke toThreepio. "See what you can do with him. I'll be back soon." Tossing the just-removed restraining bolt on the workbench, he hurried from the chamber,
　　As soon as the human was gone, Threepio whirled on his shorter companion."You'd better consider playing that whole recording for him," he growled, withsuggestive nod toward a workbench laden with dismembered machine parts."Otherwise he's liable to take up that cleaning pick again and go digging for it. Hemight not be too careful what he cuts through if he believes you're deliberatelywithholding something from him."
　　A plaintive beep came from Artoo.
　　"No," Threepio responded, "I don't think he likes you at all."
　　A second beep failed to alter the stern tone in the taller robot's voice. "No, Idon't like you, either."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  