  

A New Hope
IV

　　Luke's Aunt Beru was filling a pitcher with blue liquid from a refrigerated container.Behind her, in the dining area, a steady buzz of conversation reached to the kitchen. 
　　She sighed sadly. The mealtime discussions between her husband and Lukehad grown steadily more acrimonious as the boy's restlessness pulled him indirections other than farming. Directions for which Owen, a stolid man of the soil ifthere ever was one, had absolutely no sympathy.
　　Returning the bulk container to the refrigerator unit, she placed the pitcher on atray and hurried back to the dining room. Beru was not a brilliant woman, but shepossessed an instinctive understanding of her important position in this household.She functioned like the damping rods in a nuclear reactor. As long as she waspresent, Owen and Luke would continue to generate a lot of heat, but if she was out oftheir presence for too long-boom!
　　Condenser units built into the bottom of each plate kept the food on the dining-room table hot as she hurried in. immediately, both men lowered their voices tosomething civilized and shifted the subject. Beru pretended not to notice the change.
　　"I think that Artoo unit might have been stolen, Uncle Owen," Luke was saying,as if that had been the topic of conversation all along.
　　His uncle helped himself to the milk pitcher, mumbling his reply around amouthful of food. "The jawas have a tendency to pick up anything that's not tieddown, Luke, but remember, they're basically afraid of their own shadows. To resortto outright theft, they'd have to have considered the consequences of being pursuedand punished. Theoretically, their minds shouldn't be capable of that. What makesyou think the 'droid is stolen?"
　　"For one thing, it's in awfully good shape for a discard. It generated ahologram recording while I was cleaning-" Luke tried to conceal his horror at theslip. He added hastily. "But that's not important. The reason I think it might bestolen is because it claims to be the property of someone it calls Obi-wan Kenobi."
　　 Maybe something in the food, or perhaps the milk, caused Luke's uncle to gag.Then again, it might have been an expression of disgust, which was Owen's way ofindicating his opinion of that peculiar personage. In any case, he continued eatingwithout looking up at his nephew.
　　Luke pretended the display of graphic dislike had never happened. "I thought,"he continued determinedly, "it might have meant old Ben. The first name is different,but the last is identical."
　　When his uncle steadfastly maintained his silence, Luke prompted him directly."Do you know who he's talking about, Uncle Owen?"
　　Surprisingly, his uncle looked uncomfortable instead of angry. "It's nothing,"he mumbled, still not meeting Luke's gaze. "A name from another time." Hesquirmed nervously in his seat. "A name that can only mean trouble."
　　Luke refused to heed the implied warning and pressed on. "Is it someonerelated to old Ben, then? I didn't know he had any relatives."
　　"You stay away from that old wizard, he hear me!" his uncle exploded,awkwardly substituting threat for reason.
　　"Owen´" Aunt Beru started to interject gently, but the big farmer cut her offsternly.
　　"Now, this is important, Beru." He turned his attention back to his nephew."I've told you about Kenobi before. He's a crazy old man; he'd dangerous and fullof mischief, and he's the best left well along."
　　Beru's pleading gaze caused him to quiet somewhat. "That 'droid has nothingto do with him. Couldn't have," he grumbled half to himself. "Recording-huh!Well, tomorrow I want you to take the unit into Anchorhead and have its memoryflushed."
　　Snorting, Owen bent to his half-eaten meal with determination. "That will bethe end of this foolishness. I don't care where that machine thinks it came from. Ipaid hard credit for it, and it belongs to us now."
　　"But suppose it does belong to someone else" Luke wondered. "What if thisObi-wan person comes looking for his 'droid?"
　　An expression between sorrow and a sneer crossed his uncle's seamed face at aremembrance. "He won't. I don't think that man exists anymore. He died aboutthe same time as your father." A huge mouthful of hot food was shoveled inward."Now forget about it."
　　"Then it was a real person," Luke murmured, staring down at his plate. Headded slowly, "Did he know my father?"
　　"I said forge about it." Owen snapped. "Your only worry as far as thosetwo 'droids are concerned is having them ready for work tomorrow. Remember, thelast of our saving is tied up in those two. Wouldn't even have bought them if itwasn't so near harvest." He shook a spoon at his nephew. "In the morning I wantyou to have them working with the irrigation units up on the south ridge.
　　"You know," Luke replied distantly, "I think these 'droids are going to work outfine. In fact, I-" He hesitated, shooting his uncle a surreptitious glare. "I wasthinking about our agreement about me staying on for another season."
　　His uncle failed to react, so Luke rushed on before his nerve failed. "If thesenew 'droids do work out, I want to transmit my application to enter the Academy fornext year."
　　Owen scowled, trying to hide his displeasure with food. "You mean, you wantto transmit application next year-after the harvest."
　　"You have more than enough 'droids now, and they're in good condition.They'll last."
　　"'droids, yes," his uncle agreed, "but 'droids can't replace a man, Luke. Youknow that. The harvest is when I need you the most. It's just for one more seasonafter this one." He looked away, bluster and anger gone now.
　　Luke toyed with his food, not eating, saying nothing.
　　"Listen," his uncle told him, "for the first time we've got a chance for a realfortune. We'll make enough to hire some extra hands for next time. Not 'droids-people. Then you can go to the Academy." He fumbled over words, unaccustomedto pleading. "I need you here, Luke. You understand that, don't you?"
　　"It's another year," his nephew objected sullenly. "Another year."
　　"How many times had he heard that before? How many times had theyrepeated this identical charade with the same result?
　　Convinced once more that Luke had come round to his way of thinking. Owenshrugged the objection off. "Time will pass before you know it"
　　Abruptly Luke rose, shoving his barely touched plate of food aside. "That'swhat you said last year when Biggs left." He spun and half ran from the room.
　　"Where are you going, Luke?" his aunt yelled worriedly after him.
　　Luke's reply was bleak, bitter. "Looks like I'm going nowhere." Then headded, out of consideration for his aunt's sensibilities, "I have to finish cleaningthose 'droids if they're going to be ready to work tomorrow."
　　Silence hung in the air of the dining room after Luke departed. Husband andwife ate mechanically. Eventually Aunt Beru stopped shoving her food around herplate, looked up, and pointed out earnestly, "Owen, you can't keep him here forever.Most of his friends are gone, the people he grew up with. The Academy means somuch to him."
　　Listlessly her husband replied, "I'll make it up to him next year. I promise.We'll have money-or maybe, the year after that."
　　"Luke's just not a farmer, Owen," she continued firmly. "He never will be, nomatter how hard you try to make him one." She shook her head slowly. "He's gottoo much of his father in him."
　　For the first time all evening Owen Lars looked thoughtful as well as concernedas he gazed down the passage Luke had taken. "That's what I'm afraid of," hewhispered.
　　Luke had gone topside. He stood on the sand watching the double sunset asfirst one and then the other of Tatooine's twin suns sank slowly behind the distantrange of dunes. In the fading light the sands turned gold, russet, and flaming red-orange before advancing night put the bright colors to sleep for another day. Soon,for the first time, those sands would blossom with food plants. This formerwasteland would see and eruption of green.
　　The thought ought to have sent a thrill of anticipation through Luke. He shouldhave been as flushed with excitement as his uncle was whenever he described thecoming harvest. Instead, Luke felt nothing but a vast indifferent emptiness. Noteven the prospect of having a lot of money for the first time in his life excited him.What was there to do with money in Anchorhead-anywhere on Tatooine, for thatmatter?
　　Part of him, an increasingly large part, was growing more and more restless atremaining unfulfilled. This was not an uncommon feeling in youths his age, but forreasons Luke did not understand it was much stronger in him than in any of hisfriends.
　　As the night cold came creeping over the sand and up his legs, he brushed thegrit from his trousers and descended into the garage. Maybe working on the 'droidswould bury some of the remorse a little deeper in his mind. A quick survey of thechamber showed no movement. Neither of the new machines was in sight.Frowning slightly, Luke took a small control box from his belt and activated a coupleof switches set into the plastic.
　　A low him came from the box. The caller produced the taller of the two robots,Threepio. In fact, he gave a yell of surprise as he jumped up behind the skyhopper.
　　Luke started toward him, openly puzzled. "What are you hiding back therefor?"
　　The robot came stumbling around the prow of the craft, he attitude one ofdesperation. It occurred to Luke then that despite his activating the caller, the Artoounit was still nowhere to be seen.
　　The reason for his absence-or something related to it-came pouring unbiddenfrom Threepio. "It wasn't my fault," the robot begged frantically. "Please don'tdeactivate me! I told him not to go, but he's faulty. He must be malfunctioning.Something has totally boiled his logic circuits. He kept babbling on about some sortof mission, sir. I never heard a robot with delusions of grandeur before. Suchthings shouldn't even be within the cogitative theory units of one that's as basic as anArtoo unit, and´"
　　"You mean´?" Luke started to gape.
　　"Yes, sir´he's gone."
　　"And I removed his restraining coupling myself," Luke muttered slowly.Already he could visualize his uncle's face. The last of their savings tied up inthese 'droids, he had said.
　　Racing out of the garage, Luke hunted for non-existent reasons why the Artoounit should go berserk. Threepio followed on his heels.
　　From a small ridge which formed the highest point close by the homestead, Lukehad a panoramic view of the surrounding desert. Bringing out the preciousmacrobinoculars, he scanned the rapidly darkening horizons for something small,metallic, three-legged, and out of its mechanical mind.
　　Threepio fought his way up through the sand to stand beside Luke. "That Artoounit has always caused nothing but trouble," he groaned. "Astromech 'droids arebecoming too iconoclastic even for me to understand, sometimes."
　　The binoculars finally came down, and Luke commented matter-of-factly, "Well,he's nowhere in sight." He kicked furiously at the ground. "Damn it-how could Ihave been so stupid, letting it trick me into removing that restrainer! Uncle Owen'sgoing to kill me."
　　"Begging your pardon, sir," ventured a hopeful Threepio, visions of jawasdancing in his head, "but can't we go after him?" Luke turned. Studiously he examined the wall of black advancing toward them"Not at night. It's too dangerous with all the raiders around. I'm not too concernedabout the jawas, but sandpeople´no, not in the dark. We'll have to wait untilmorning to try to track him"
　　A shout rose from the homestead below. "Luke-Luke, are you finished withthose 'droids yet? I'm turning down the power for the night."
　　"All right!" Luke responded, sidestepping the question. "I'll be down in a fewminutes, Uncle Owen!" Turning, he took one last look at the vanished horizon."Boy, am I in for it!" he muttered. "That little 'droid's going to get me in a lot oftrouble."
　　"Oh, he excells at that, sir." Threepio confirmed with mock cheerfulness. Lukethrew him a sour look, and together they turned and descended into the garage.
　　"Luke´Luke!" Still rubbing the morning sleep from his eyes, Owen glancedfrom side to side, loosening his neck muscles. "Where could that boy be loafingnow?" he wondered aloud at the lack of response. There was no sign of movementin the homestead, and he had already checked above.
　　"Luke!" he yelled again. Luke, luke, luke´the name echoed teasing back athim from the homestead walls. Turning angrily, he stalked back into the kitchen,where Beru was preparing breakfast.
　　"Have you seen Luke this morning?" he asked as softly as he could manage.
　　She glance briefly at him, then returned to her cooking. "Yes. He said he hadsome things to do before he started out to the south ridge this morning, so he leftearly."
　　"Before breakfast?" Owen frowned worriedly. "That's not like him. Did hetake the new 'droids with him?"
　　"I think so. I am sure I saw at least one of them with him."
　　"Well," Owen mused, uncomfortable but with nothing to really hangimprecations on, "he'd better have those ridge units repaired by midday or there'll behell to pay."
　　An unseen face shielded by smooth white metal emerged from the half-buriedlife pod that now formed the backbone of a dune slightly higher than its neighbors.The voice sounded efficient, but tired.
　　"Nothing," the inspecting trooper muttered to his several companions. "Notapes, and no sign of habitation."
　　Powerful handguns lowered at the information that the pod was deserted. Oneof the armored men turned, calling out to an officer standing some distance away."This is definitely the pod that cleared the rebel ship, sir, but there's nothing onboard."
　　"Yet it set down intact," the officer was murmuring to himself. "It could havedone so on automatics, but if it was a true malfunction, then they shouldn't have beenengaged." Something didn't make sense.
　　"Here's why there's nothing on board and no hint of life, sir," a voice declared.
　　The officer turned and strode several paces to where another trooper waskneeling in the sand. He held up an object for the officer's inspection. It shone inthe sun.
　　"'Droid plating," the officer observed after a quick glance at the metal fragment.Superior and underling exchanged a significant glance. Then their eyes turnedsimultaneously to the high mesas off to the north.
　　Gravel and fine sand formed a gritty fog beneath the landspeeder as it slid acrossthe rippling wasteland of Tatooine on humming repulsors. Occasionally the craftwould jog slightly as it encountered a dip or slight rise, to return to its smooth passageas its pilot compensated for the change in terrain.
　　Luke leaned back in the seat, luxuriating in unaccustomed relaxation as Threepioskillfully directed the powerful landcraft around dunes and rocky outcrops. "Youhandle a landspeeder pretty well, for a machine," he noted admiringly.
　　"Thank you, sir," a gratified Threepio responded, his eyes never moving from thelandscape ahead. "I was not lying to your uncle when I claimed versatility as mymiddle name. In fact, on occasion I have been called upon to perform unexpectedfunctions in circumstances which would have appalled my designers."
　　Something pinged behind them, then pinged again.
　　Luke frowned and popped the speeder canopy. A few moments of digging inthe motor casing eliminated the metallic bark.
　　"How's that?" he yelled forward.
　　Threepio signaled that the adjustment was satisfactory. Luke turned back intothe cockpit and closed the canopy over them again. Silently he brushed his wind-whipped hair back out of his eyes as his attention returned to the dry desert ahead ofthem.
　　"Old Ben Kenobi is supposed to live out in this general direction. Even thoughnobody knows exactly where, I don't see how that Artoo unit could have come this farso quickly." His expression was downcast. "We must have missed him back in thedunes somewhere. He could be anywhere out here. And Uncle Owen must bewondering why I haven't called in from the south ridge by now."
　　Threepio considered a moment, then ventured, "Would it help, sir, if you toldhim that it was my fault?"
　　Luke appeared to brighten at the suggestion. "Sure´he needs you twice asmuch now. Probably he'll only deactivate you for a day or so, or give you a partialmemory flush."
　　Deactivate? Memory flush? Threepio added hastily, "On second thought, sir,Artoo would still be around if you hadn't removed his restraining module."
　　But something more important than fixing responsibility for the little robot'sdisappearance was on Luke's mind at the moment. "Wait a minute," he advisedThreepio as he stared fixedly at the instrument panel. "There's something deadahead on the metal scanner. Can't distinguish outlines at this distance, but judgingby size alone, it could be our wandering 'droid. Hit it."
　　The landspeeder jumped forward as Threepio engaged the accelerator, but itsoccupants were totally unaware that other eyes were watching as the craft increasedits speed.
　　Those eyes were not organic, but then, they weren't wholly mechanical, either.No one could say for certain, because no one had ever made that intimate a study ofthe Tusken Raiders-known less formally to the margin farmers of Tatooine simply asthe sandpeople.
　　The Tusken didn't permit close study of themselves, discouraging potentialobservers by methods as effective as they were uncivilized. A few xenologiststhought they must be related to the jawas. Even fewer hypothesized that the jawaswere actually the mature form of the sandpeople, but this theory was discounted bythe majority of serious scientists.
　　Both races affected tight clothing to shield them from Tatooine's twin dose ofsolar radiation, but there most comparisons ended. Instead of heavy woven cloakslike the jawas wore, the sandpeople wrapped themselves mummy-like in endlessswathing and bandages and loose bits of cloth.
　　Where the jawas feared everything, a Tusken Raider feared little. Thesandpeople were larger, stronger, and far more aggressive. Fortunately for thehuman colonists of Tatooine, they were not very numerous and elected to pursue theirnomadic existence in some of Tatooine's most desolate regions. Contact betweenhuman and Tusken, therefore, was infrequent and uneasy, and they murdered no morethan a handful of human per year. Since the human population had claimed its shareof Tuskens, not always with reason, a peace of a sort existed between the two-aslong as neither side gained an advantage.
　　One of the pair felt that that unstable condition had temporarily shifted in hisfavor, and he was about to take full advantage of it as he raised his rifle toward thelandspeeder. But his companion grabbed the weapon and shoved down on it beforeit could be fired. This set off a violent argument between the two. And, as theytraded vociferous opinions in a language consisting mostly of consonants, thelandspeeder sped on its way.
　　Either because the speeder had passed out of range or because the second Tuskenhad convinced the other, the two broke off the discussion and scrambled down thebackside of the high ridge. Snuffling and a shifting of weight took place at the ridgebottom as the two Banthas stirred at the approach of their masters. Each was aslarge as a small dinosaur, with bright eyes and long, thick fur. They hissed anxiouslyas the two sandpeople approached, then mounted them from knee to saddle.
　　With a kick Banthas rose. Moving slowly but with enormous strides, the twomassive horned creatures swept down the back of the rugged bluff, urged on by theiranxious, equally outrageous mahouts.
　　"It's him, all right," Luke declared with mixed anger and satisfaction as the tinytripodal form came into view. The speeder banked and swung down onto the floorof a huge sandstone canyon. Luke slipped his rifle out from behind the seat andswung it over his shoulder. "Come round in front of him, Threepio," he instructed.
　　"With pleasure, sir."
　　The Artoo unit obviously noted their approach, but mad no move to escape; itcould hardly have outrun the landspeeder anyway. Artoo simply halted as soon as itdetected them and waited until the craft swung around in a smooth arc. Threepiocame to a sharp halt, sending up a low cloud of sand on the smaller robot's right.Then the whine from the landspeeder's engine dropped to a low idling hum asThreepio put it in parking mode. A last sigh and the craft stopped completely.
　　After finishing a cautious survey of the canyon, Luke led his companion out ontothe gravelly surface and up to Artoo Detoo. "Just where," he inquired sharply, "didyou think you were going?"
　　A feeble whistle issued from the apologetic robot, but it was Threepio and notthe recalcitrant rover who was abruptly doing most of the talking.
　　"Master Luke here is now your rightful owner, Artoo. How could you justamble away from him like this? Now that's he's found you, let's have no more ofthis 'Obi-wan Kenobi's gibberish. I don't know where picked that up-or thatmelodramatic hologram, either."
　　Artoo started to beep in protest, but Threepio's indignation was too great topermit excuses. "And don't talk to me about your mission. What rot! You'refortunate Master Luke doesn't blast you into a million pieces right here and now."
　　"Not much chance of that," admitted Luke, a bit overwhelmed by Threepio'scasual vindictiveness. "Come on-it's getting late." He eyed the rapidly risingsuns. "I just hope we can get back before Uncle Owen really lets go."
　　"If you don't mind my saying so," Threepio suggested, apparently unwilling thatthe Artoo unit should get off so easily, "I think you ought to deactivate the littlefugitive until you've gotten him safely back in the garage."
　　"No. He's not going to try anything." Luke studied the softly beeping 'droidsternly. "I hope he's learned his lesson. There's no need to-"
　　Without warning the Artoo unit suddenly leaped off the ground-no mean featconsidering the weakness of the spring mechanisms in his three thick legs. Hiscylindrical body was twisting and spinning as he let out a frantic symphony ofwhistles, hoots, and electronic exclamations.
　　Luke was tired, not alarmed. "What is it? What's wrong with him now?"He was beginning to see how Threepio's patience could be worn thin. He had hadabout enough of this addled instrument himself.
　　Undoubtedly the Artoo unit had acquired the holo of the girl by accident, thenused it to entice Luke into removing his restraining module. Threepio probably hadthe right attitude. Still, once Luke got its circuits realigned and its logic couplingscleaned, it would make a perfectly serviceable farm unit. Only´if that was the case,then why was Threepio looking around so anxiously?
　　"Oh my, sir. Artoo claims there are several creatures of unknown typeapproaching from the southeast."
　　That could be another attempt by Artoo to distract them, but Luke couldn't takethe chance. Instantly he had his rifle off his shoulder and had activated the energycell. He examined the horizon in the indicated direction and saw nothing. But then,sandpeople were experts at making themselves unseeable.
　　Luke suddenly realized exactly how far out they were, how much ground thelandspeeder had covered that morning. "I've never been out in this direction this farfrom the farm before," he informed Threepio. "There are some awfully strangethings living out here. Not all of them have been classified. It's better to treatanything as dangerous until determined otherwise. Of course, if it's somethingutterly new´" His curiosity prodded him. In any case, this was probably justanother ruse of Artoo Detoo's. "Let's take a look," he decided.
　　Moving cautiously forward and keeping his rifle ready, he led Threepio towardthe crest of a nearby high dune. At the same time he took care not to let Artoo out ofhis sight.
　　Once at the top he lay flat and traded his rifle for the macrobinoculars. Below,another canyon spread out before them, rising to a wind-weathered wall of rust andocher. Advancing the binocs slowly across the canyon floor, he settled unexpectedlyon two tethered shapes. Banthas-and riderless!
　　"Did you say something, sir?" wheezed Threepio, struggling up behind Luke.His locomotors were not designed for such outer climbing and scrambling.
　　"Banthas, all right," Luke whispered over his shoulder, not considering in theexcitement of the moment that Threepio might not know a Bantha from a panda.
　　He looked back into the eyepieces, refocusing slightly. "Wait´it's sandpeople,sure. I see one of them."
　　Something dark suddenly blocked his sight. For a moment he thought that arock might have moved in front of them. Irritably he dropped the binoculars andreached out to move the blinding object aside. His hand touched something like softmetal.
　　It was a bandaged leg about as big around as both of Luke's together. Shocked,he looked up´and up. The towering figure glaring down at him was no jawa. Ithad seemingly erupted straight from the sand.
　　Threepio took a startled step backward and found no footing. As gyros whinedin protest the tall robot tumbled backward down the side of the dune. Frozen inplace, Luke heard steadily fading bangs and rattles as Threepio bounced down thesteep slope behind him.
　　As the moment of confrontation passed, the Tusken let out a terrifying grunt offury and pleasure and brought down his heavy gaderffii. The double-edged axwould have cleaved Luke's skull neatly in two, except that he threw the rifle up in agesture more instinctive than calculated. His weapon deflected the blow, but wouldnever do so again. Made from cannibalized freighter plating the huge ax shatteredthe barrel and made metallic confetti of the gun's delicate insides.
　　Luke scrambled backward and found himself against a steep drop. The Raiderstalked him slowly, weapon held high over its rag-enclosed head. It uttered agruesome, chuckling laugh, the sound made all the more inhuman by the distortioneffect of its grid-like sandfilter.
　　Luke tried to view his situation objectively, as he had been instructed to do insurvival school. Trouble was, his mouth was dry, his hands were shaking, and hewas paralyzed with fear. With the Raider in front of him and a probably fatal dropbehind, something else in his mind took over and opted for the least painful response.He fainted.
　　None of the Raiders notice Artoo Detoo as the tiny robot force himself into asmall alcove in the rocks near the landspeeder. One of them was carrying the inertform of Luke. He dumped the unconscious youth in a heap next to the speeder, thenjoined his fellows as they began swarming over the open craft.
　　Supplies and spare parts were thrown in all directions, from time to time theplundering would be interrupted as several of them quibbled or fought over aparticularly choice bit of booty.
　　Unexpectedly, distribution of the landspeeder's content ceased, and withfrightening speed the Raiders became part of the desertscape, looking in all directions.
　　A lost breeze idled absently down the canyon. Far off to the west, somethinghowled. A rolling, booming drone ricocheted off canyon walls and crawlednervously up and down a gorgon scale.
　　The sandpeople remained poised a moment longer. Then they were utteringloud grunts and moans of fright as they rushed to get away from the highly visiblelandspeeder.
　　The shivering howl sounded again, nearer this time. Bu now the sandpeoplewere halfway to their waiting Banthas, that were likewise lowing tensely and tuggingat their tethers.
　　Although the sound held no meaning for Artoo Detoo, the little 'droid tried tosqueeze himself even deeper into the almost-cave. The booming howl came closer.Judging by the way the sandpeople had reacted, something monstrous beyondimagining had to be behind that rolling cry. Something monstrous and murder-bentwhich might not have the sense to distinguish between edible organics and inediblemachines.
　　Not even the dust of their passing remained to mark where the Tusken Raidershad only minutes before been dismembering the interior of the landspeeder. ArtooDetoo shut down all but vital functions, trying to minimize noise and light as aswishing sound grew gradually audible. Moving toward the landspeeder, thecreature appeared above the top of a nearby dune´

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  