  

A New Hope
VI

　　"Look over there, Luke," Kenobi ordered, pointing to the southwest. Thelandspeeder continued to race over the gravelly desert floor beneath them. "Smoke,I should think."
　　Luke spared a glance at the indicated direction. "I don't see anything, sir."
　　"Let's angle over that way anyhow. Someone may be in trouble."
　　Luke turned the speeder. Before long the rising wisps of smoke that Kenobihad somehow detected earlier became visible to him also.
　　Topping a slight rise, the speeder dropped down a gentle slope into a broad,shallow canyon that was filled with twisted, burned shapes, some of them inorganic,some not. Dead in the center of this carnage and looking like a beached metal whalelay the shattered hulk of a jawa sandcrawler.
　　Luke brought the speeder to a halt. Kenobi followed him onto the sand, andtogether they began to examine the detritus of destruction.
　　Several slight depressions in the sand caught Luke's attention. Walking a littlefaster, he came up next to them and studied them for a moment before calling back toKenobi.
　　"Looks like the sandpeople did it, all right. Here's Bantha tracks´" Lukenoticed a gleam of metal half-buried in the sand. "And there's a piece of one ofthose big double axes of theirs." He shook his head in confusion. "but I neverheard of the Raiders hitting something this big." He leaned back, staring up at thetowering, burned-out bulk of the sandcrawler.
　　Kenobi had passed him. He was examining the broad, huge footprints in thesand. "They didn't," he declared casually, "but they intended that we-and anyoneelse who might happen onto this-should think so." Luke moved up alongside him.
　　"I don't understand, sir."
　　"Look at these tracks carefully," the older man directed him, pointing down atthe nearest and then up at the others. "Notice anything funny about them?" Lukeshook his head. "Whoever left here was riding Banthas side by side. Sandpeoplealways ride one Bantha behind another, single file, to hide their strength from anydistant observers."
　　Leaving Luke to gape at the parallel sets of tracks, Kenobi turned his attention tothe sandcrawler. He pointed out where single weapons' bursts had blasted awayportals, treads, and support beams. "Look at the precision with which this firepowerwas applied. Sandpeople aren't this accurate. In fact, no one on Tatooine fires anddestroys with this kind of efficiency." Turing, he examined the horizon. One ofthose nearby bluffs concealed a secret-and a threat. "Only Imperial troops wouldmount an attack on a sandcrawler with this kind of cold accuracy."
　　Luke had walked over to one of the small, crumpled bodies and kicked it overonto its back. His face screwed up in distaste as he saw what remained of the pitifulcreature.
　　"These are the same jawas who sold Uncle Owen and me Artoo and Threepio.I recognize this one's cloak design. Why would Imperial troops be slaughteringjawas and sandpeople? They must have killed some Raider to get those Banthas."His mind worked furiously, and he found himself growing unnaturally tense as hestared back at the landspeeder, past the rapidly deteriorating corpses of the jawas.
　　"But´if they tracked the 'droids to the jawas, then they had to learn first whothey sold them to. They would lead them back to´" Luke was sprinting insanelyfor the landspeeder.
　　"Luke, wait´wait, Luke!" Kenobi called. "It's too dangerous! You'dnever´!"
　　Luke heard nothing except the roaring in his ears, felt nothing save the burningin his heart. He jumped into the speeder and was throwing the accelerator full overalmost simultaneously. In an explosion of sand and gravel he left Kenobi and thetwo robots standing alone in the midst of smoldering bodies, framed by the stillsmoking wreck of the sandcrawler.
　　The smoke that Luke saw as he drew near the homestead was of a differentconsistency from that which had boiled out of the jawa machine. He barelyremembered to shut down the landspeeder's engine as he popped the cockpit canopyand threw himself out. Dark smoke was drifting steadily from holes in the ground.
　　Those holes had been his home, the only one he had ever known. They mightas well have been throats of small volcanoes now. Again and again he tried topenetrate the surface entrances to the belowground complex. Again and again thestill-intense heat drove him back, coughing and choking.
　　Weakly he found himself stumbling clear, his eyes watering not entirely from thesmoke. Half blinded, he staggered over to the exterior entrance to the garage. Ittoo was burning. But perhaps they managed to escape in the other landspeeder.
　　"Aunt Beru´Uncle Owen!" It was difficult to make out much of anythingthrough the eye-stinging haze. Two smoking shapes showed down the tunnel, barelyvisible through tears and haze. They almost looked like- He squinted harder,wiping angrily at his uncooperative eyes.
　　No.
　　Then he was spinning away, falling to his stomach and burying his face in thesand so he wouldn't have to look anymore.
　　The tridimensional solid screen filled one wall of the vast chamber from floor toceiling. It showed a million star systems. A tiny portion of the galaxy, but animpressive display nonetheless when exhibited in such a fashion.
　　Below, far below, the huge shape of Darth Vader stood flanked on one side byGovernor Tarkin and on the other by Admiral Motti and General Tagge, their privateantagonisms forgotten in the awesomeness of this moment.
　　"The final checkout is complete." Motti informed them. "All systems areoperational." He turned to the others. "What shall be the first course we set?"
　　Vader appeared not to have heard as he mumbled softly, half to himself, "She hasa surprising amount of control. Her resistance to the interrogator is considerable."He glanced down at Tarkin. "It will be some time before we can extract any usefulinformation from her."
　　 "I've always found the methods you recommend rather quaint, Vader."
　　"They are efficient," the Dark Lord argued softly. "In the interest ofaccelerating the procedure, however, I am open to your suggestions."
　　Tarkin looked thoughtful. "Such stubbornness can often be detoured byapplying threats to something other than the one involved."
　　"What do you mean?"
　　"Only that I think is time we demonstrated the full power of this station. Wemay do so in a fashion doubly useful." He instructed the attentive Motti, "Tell yourprogrammers to set course for the Alderaan system."
　　Kenobi's pride did not prevent him from wrapping an old scarf over nose andmouth to filter out a portion of the bonfire's drifting putrid odor. Though possessedof olfactory sensory apparatus, Artoo Detoo and Threepio had no need of such ascreen. Even Threepio, who was equipped to discriminate among aromaticaesthetics, could be artificially selective when he so desired.
　　Working together, the two 'droids helped Kenobi throw the last of the bodiesonto the blazing pyre, then stood back and watched the dead continue to burn. Notthat the desert scavengers wouldn't have been equally efficient in picking the burned-out sandcrawler clean of flesh, but Kenobi retained values most modern men wouldhave deemed archaic. He would consign no one to the bone-gnawers and gravel-maggots, not even a filthy jawa.
　　At a rising thrumming Kenobi turned from the residue of the noisome business tosee the landspeeder approaching, now traveling at a sensible pace, far different fromwhen it had left. It slowed and hovered nearby, but showed no signs of life.
　　Gesturing for the two robots to follow, Ben started toward the waiting craft.The canopy flipped open and up to reveal Luke sitting motionless in the pilot's seat.He didn't look up at Kenobi's inquiring glance. That in itself was enough to tell theold man what had happened.
　　"I share your sorrow, Luke," he finally ventured softly. "There was nothing youcould have done. Had you been there, you'd be dead now, too, and the 'droidswould be in the hands of the Imperials. Not even the force-"
　　"Damn your force!" Luke snarled with sudden violence. Now he turned andglared at Kenobi. There was a set to his jaw that belonged on a much older face.
　　"I'll take you to the spaceport at Mos Eisley, Ben. I want to go with you-toAlderaan. There's nothing left for me here now." His eyes turned to look outacross the desert, to focus on something beyond sand and rock and canyon walls. "Iwant to learn to be like a Jedi, like my father. I want´" He paused, the wordsbacking up like a logjam in his throat.
　　Kenobi slid into the cockpit, put a hand gently on the youth's shoulder, then wentforward to make room for the two robots. "I'll do my best to see that you get whatyou want, Luke. For now, let's go to Mos Eisley."
　　Luke nodded and closed the canopy. The landspeeder moved away to thesoutheast, leaving behind the still-smoldering sandcrawler, the jawa funeral pyre, andthe only life Luke had ever known.
　　Leaving the speeder parked near the edge of the sandstone bluff, Luke and Benwalked over and peered down at the tiny regularized bumps erupting from the sun-baked plain below. The haphazard collage of low-grade concrete, stone, and plastoidstructures spread outward from a central power-and-water-distribution plant like thespokes of a wheel.
　　Actually the town was considerably larger than it appeared, since a good portionof it lay underground. Looking like bomb craters from this distance, the smoothcircular depressions of launch stations pockmarked the cityscape.
　　A brisk gale was scouring the tired ground. It whipped the sand about Luke'sfeet and legs as he adjusted his protective goggles.
　　"There it is," Kenobi murmured, indicating the unimpressive collection ofbuildings, "Mos Eisley Spaceport-the ideal place for us to lose ourselves while weseek passage offplanet. Not a more wretched collection of villainy and disreputabletypes exists anywhere on Tatooine. The Empire has been alerted to us, so we mustbe very cautious, Luke. The population of Mos Eisley should disguise us well."
　　Luke wore a determined look. "I'm ready for anything, Obi-wan."
　　I wonder if you comprehend what that might entail, Luke, Kenobi thought. Buthe only nodded as he led the way back to the landspeeder.
　　Unlike Anchorhead, there were enough people in Mos Eisley to requiremovement in the heat of day. Built from the beginning with commerce in mind,even the oldest of the town's buildings had been designed to provide protection fromthe twin suns. They looked primitive from the outside, and many were. Butoftentimes walls and arches of old stone masked durasteel double walls withcirculating coolant flowing freely between.
　　Luke was maneuvering the landspeeder through the town's outskirts whenseveral tall, gleaming forms appeared from nowhere and began to close a circlearound him. For one panicked moment he considered gunning the engine and racingthrough the pedestrians and other vehicles. A startlingly firm grip on his arm bothrestrained and relaxed him. He glanced over to see Kenobi smiling, warning him.
　　So they continued at a normal town cruising speed, Luke hoping that the imperialtroops were bent on business elsewhere. No such luck. One of the troopers raisedan armored hand. Luke had no choice but to respond. As he pulled the speederover, he grew aware of the attention they were receiving from curious passersby.Worse yet, it seemed that the trooper's attention was in fact reserved not for Kenobi orhimself, but for the two unmoving robots seated in the speeder behind them.
　　"How long have you had these 'droids?" the trooper who had raised his handbarked. Polite formalities were to be dispensed with, it appeared.
　　Looking blank for a second, Luke finally came up with "Three or four seasons, Iguess."
　　"They're up for sale, if you want them-and the price is right," Kenobi put in,giving a wonderful impression of a dessert finagler out to cajole a few quick creditsfrom ignorant Imperials.
　　The trooper in charge did not deign to reply. He was absorbed in a thoroughexamination of the landspeeder's underside.
　　"Did you come in from the south?" he asked.
　　"No´no," Luke answered quickly, "we live in the west, near Bestine township."
　　"Bestine?" the trooper murmured, walking around to study the speeder's front.Luke forced himself to stare straight ahead. Finally the armored figure concludedhis examination. He moved to stand ominously close to Luke and snapped, "Let mesee your identification."
　　Surely the man sensed his terror and nervousness by now, Luke thought wildly.His resolution of not long before to be ready to take on anything had alreadydisintegrated under the unwinking stare of this professional soldier. He knew whatwould happen if they got a look at his formal ID, with the location of his homesteadand the name of his nearest relatives on it. Something seemed to be buzzing insidehis head; he felt faint.
　　Kenobi had leaned over and was talking easily to the trooper. "You don't needto see his identification," the old man informed the Imperial in an extremely peculiarvoice.
　　Staring blankly back at him, the officer replied, as if it were self-evident, "I don'tneed to see your identification." His reaction was the opposite of Kenobi's: hisvoice was normal, but his expression peculiar.
　　"These aren't the 'droids you're looking for," Kenobi told him pleasantly.
　　"These aren't the 'droids we're looking for."
　　"He can go about his business."
　　"You can go about your business," the metal-masked officer informed Luke.
　　The expression of relief that spread across Luke's face ought to have been asrevealing as his previous nervousness, but the Imperial ignored it.
　　"Move along," Kenobi whispered.
　　"Move along," the officer instructed Luke.
　　Unable to decide whether he should salute, nod, or give thanks to the man, Lukesettled for nudging the accelerator. The landspeeder moved forward, drawing awayfrom the circle of troops. As they prepared to round a corner, Luke risked a glancebackward. The officer who had inspected them appeared to be arguing with severalcomrades, though at this distance Luke couldn't be sure.
　　He peered up at his tall companion and started to say something. Kenobiseemed to have some idea where they were headed. Luke studied the run-downstructures and equally unwholesome-looking individuals they were passing. Theyhad entered the oldest section of Mos Eisley and consequently the one where the oldvices flourished most strongly.
　　Kenobi pointed and Luke pulled the landspeeder up in front of what appeared tobe one of the original spaceport's first blockhouses. It had been converted into acantina whose clientele was suggested by the diverse nature of transport parkedoutside. Some of them Luke recognized, others he had only heard rumors of. Thecantina itself, he knew from the design of the building, must lie partially underground.
　　As the dusty but still sleek craft pulled into an open spot, a jawa materializedfrom nowhere and began running covetous hands over the metal sides. Luke leanedout and barked something harsh at the sub-human, which caused it to scurry away.
　　"I can't abide those jawas," murmured Threepio with lofty disdain."Disgusting creatures."
　　Luke's mind was too full of their narrow escape for him to comment onThreepio's sentiments. "I still can't understand how we got by these troops. Ithought we were as good as dead."
　　"The force is in the mind, Luke, and can sometime be used to influence others.It's a powerful ally. But as you come to know the force, you will discover that it canalso be a danger."
　　Nodding without really understanding, Luke indicated the run-down thoughobviously popular cantina. "Do you really think we can find a pilot here capable oftaking us all the way to Alderaan?"
　　Kenobi was exiting from the speeder. "Most of the good, independent freighterpilots frequent this place, though many can afford better. They can talk freely here.You should have learned by now, Luke, not to equate ability with appearance." Lukesaw the old man's shabby clothing anew and felt ashamed. "Watch yourself, though.This place can be rough."
　　Luke found himself squinting as they entered the cantina. It was darker insidethan he would have liked. Perhaps the regular habitu└s of this place wereunaccustomed to the light of day, or didn't wish to be seen clearly. It didn't occur toLuke that the dim interior in combination with the brilliantly lit entrance permittedeveryone inside to see each newcomer before he could see them.
　　Moving inward, Luke was astonished at the variety of beings making use of thebar. There were one-eyed creatures and thousand-eyed, creature with scales,creatures with fur, and some with skin that seemed to ripple and change consistencyaccording to their feelings of the moment.
　　Hovering near the bar itself was a towering insectoid that Luke glimpsed only asa threatening shadow. It contrasted with two of the tallest women Luke had everseen. They were among the most normal looking of the outrageous assemblage ofhumans that mixed freely among alien counterparts. Tentacles, claws, and handswere wrapped around drinking utensils of various sizes and shapes. Conversationwas a steady babble of human and alien tongues.
　　Leaning close, Kenobi gestured toward the far end of the bar. A small knot ofrough-looking humans lounged there, drinking laughing, and trading stories ofdubious origin.
　　"Corellians-pirates, most likely."
　　"I thought we were looking for an independent freighter captain with his ownship for hire," Luke whispered back.
　　"So we are, young Luke, so we are," agreed Kenobi. "And there's bound to beone or two adequate for our needs among that group. It's just that in Corellianterminology the distinction between who owns what cargo tends to get a littlemuddled from time to time. Wait here."
　　Luke nodded and watched as Kenobi worked his way through the crowd. TheCorrellians' suspicion at his approach vanished as soon as he engaged them inconversation.
　　Something grabbed Luke's shoulder and spun him around.
　　"Hey" Looking around and struggling to regain his composure, he foundhimself staring up at an enormous, scruffy-looking human. Luke saw by the man'sclothing that he must be the bartender, if not the owner of this cantina.
　　"We don't serve their kind in here," the glaring form growled.
　　"What?" Luke replied dumbly. He still hadn't recovered from his suddensubmergence into the cultures of several dozen races. It was rather different fromthe poolroom behind the Anchorhead power station. "Your 'droids," the bartenderexplained impatiently, gesturing with a thick thumb. Luke peered in the indicateddirection, to see Artoo and Threepio standing quietly nearby. "They'll have to waitoutside. We don't serve them in here. I only carry stuff for organics, not," heconcluded with an expression of distaste, "mechanicals."
　　Luke didn't like the idea of kicking Threepio and Artoo out, but he didn't knowhow else to deal with the problem. The bartender didn't appear to be the sort whowould readily respond to reason, and when he looked around for old Ben, Luke sawthat he was locked in deep conversation with one of the Corellians.
　　Meanwhile, the discussion had attracted the attention of several especiallygruesome-looking types who happened to be clustered within hearing range. Alwere regarding Luke and the two 'droids in a decidedly unfriendly fashion.
　　"Yes, of course," Luke said, realizing this wasn't the time or place to force theissue of 'droid rights. "I'm sorry." He looked over at Threepio. "You'd betterstay outside with the speeder. We don't want any trouble in here."
　　"I heartily agree with you, sir," Threepio said, his gaze traveling past Luke andthe bartender to take in the unfriendly stares at the bar. "I don't feel the need forlubrication at the moment anyway." With Artoo waddling in his wake, the tall robothastily headed for the exit.
　　That finished things as far as the bartender was concerned, but Luke now foundhimself the subject of some unwanted attention. He abruptly became aware of hisisolation and felt as if at one time or another every eye in the place rested a momenton him, that things human and otherwise were smirking and making comments abouthim behind his back.
　　Trying to maintain an air of quiet confidence, he returned his gaze to old Ben,and started when he saw what the oldster was talking to now. The Corellian wasgone. In its place Kenobi was chatting with a towering anthropoid that showed amouthful of teeth when it smiled.
　　Luke had heard about Wookies, but he had never expected to see one, much lessmeet on. Despite an almost comical quasi-monkey face, the Wookie was anythingbut gentle looking. Only the large, glowing yellow eyes softened its otherwiseawesome appearance. The massive torso was covered entirely with soft, thick russetfur. Less appealing cover consisted of a pair of chromed bandoliers, which heldlethal projectiles of a type unknown to Luke. Other than these, the Wookies worelittle.Not, Luke knew, that anyone would laugh at the creature's mode of dress. He sawthat other denizens of the bar eddied and swirled around the huge form without evercoming too close. All but old Ben-Ben who was talking to the Wookie in its ownlanguage, quarreling and hooting softly like a native.
　　In the course of the conversation the old man had occasion to gesture in Luke'sdirection. Once the huge anthropoid stared directly at Luke and let out a horrifyinghowling laugh.
　　Disgruntled by the role he was evidently playing in the discussion, Luke turnedaway and pretended to ignore the whole conversation. He might be acting unfairlytoward the creature, but he doubted that spine-quaking laugh was meant in gentlegood-fellowship.
　　For the life of him he couldn't understand what Ben wanted with the monster, orwhy he was spending his time in guttural conversation with it instead of with the now-vanished Corellians. So he sat and sipped his drink in splendid silence, his eyesroving over the crowd in hopes of meeting a responsive gaze that held no belligerence.
　　Suddenly, something shoved him roughly from behind, so hard he almost fell.He turned angrily, but his fury spent itself in astonishment. He found himselfconfronted by a large squarish monstrosity of multiple eyes and indeterminate origin.
　　"Negola dewaghi wooldugger?" the apparition bubbled challengingly.
　　Luke had never seen its like before; he knew neither its species nor its language.The gabbling might have been an invitation to a fight, a request to share a drink, or amarriage proposal. Despite his ignorance, however, Luke could tell by the way thecreature bobbed and wove unsteadily on its podal supports that it had imbibed toomuch of whatever it considered a pleasing intoxicant.
　　Not knowing what else to do, Luke tried turning back to his own drink whilestudiously ignoring the creature. As he did so, a thing-a cross between a capybaraand a small baboon-bounced over to stand (or squat) next to the quivering many-eye.A short, companionable arm around the snuffling mass.
　　"He doesn't like you," the stubby human informed Luke in a surprisingly deepvoice.
　　"I'm sorry about that," Luke admitted, wishing heartily he were somewhere else.
　　"I don't like you either," the smiling little man went on with brotherly negativity.
　　"I said I was sorry about it."
　　Whether from the conversation it was having with the rodent-like creature or theoverdose of booze, the apartment house for wayward eyeballs was obviously growingagitated. It leaned forward, almost toppling into Luke, and spewed a stream ofunintelligible gibberish at him. Luke felt the eyes of a crowd on him as he grewincreasingly more nervous.
　　"Sorry," the human mimicked derisively, clearly deep into his own cups. "Areyou insulting us? You just better watch yourself. We're all wanted." Heindicated his drunken companions. "I have the death sentence on me in twelvedifferent systems."
　　"I'll be careful, then," Luke muttered.
　　The little man was smiling broadly. "You'll be dead."
　　At this the rodent let out a loud grunt. It was either a signal or a warning,because everything human or otherwise which had been leaning up at the barimmediately backed away, leaving a clear space around Luke and his antagonists.
　　Trying to salvage the situation, Luke essayed a wan smile. That faded rapidlywhen he saw that the three were readying hand weapons. Not only couldn't he havecountered all three of them, he had no idea what a couple of the lethal-looking devicesdid.
　　"this little one isn't worth the trouble," a calm voice said. Luke looked up,startled. He hadn't heard Kenobi come up alongside him. "Come, let me buy youall something´"
　　By way of reply the bulky monster chittered hideously and swung out a massivelimb. It caught an unprepared Luke across the temple and sent him spinning acrossthe room, crashing through tables and shattering a large jug filled with a foul-smellingliquid.
　　The crowd edged back farther, a few grunts and warning snorts coming fromsome of them as the drunken monstrosity pulled a wicked-looking pistol from itsservice pouch. He started to wave it in Kenobi's direction.
　　That spurred the heretofore-neutral bartender to life. He came chargingclumsily around the end of the bar, waving his hands frantically but still taking care tostay out of range.
　　"No blasters, no blasters! Not in my place!"
　　the rodent thing chattered threateningly at him, while the weapon wieldingmany-eye spared him a warning grunt.
　　In the split second when the gun and its owner's attention was off him, the oldman's hand had moved to the disk slung at his side. The short human started to yellas a fiery blue-white light appeared in the dimness of the cantina.
　　He never finished the yell. It turned into a blink. When the blink was finished,the man found himself lying prone against the bar, moaning and whimpering as hestared at the stump of an arm.
　　In between the start of his yell and the conclusion of the blink, the rodent-thinghad been cleft cleanly in half down the middle, its two halves falling in oppositedirections. The giant multiocular creature still stood staring, dazed, at the old humanwho was poised motionless before it, the shining lightsaber held over his head in apeculiar fashion. The creature's chrome pistol fired once, blowing a hole in the door.Then the torso peeled away as neatly as had the body of the rodent, its two cauterizedsection falling in opposite directions to lie motionless on the cool stone.
　　Only then did the suggestion of a sigh escape from Kenobi; only then did hisbody appear to relax. Bringing the lightsaber down, he flipped it carefully upward ina reflex saluting motion which ended with the deactivated weapon restinginnocuously on his hip.
　　That final movement broke the total quiet which had enshrouded the room.Conversations resumed, as did the movement of bodies in chairs, the scraping ofmugs and pitchers and other drinking devices on tabletops. The bartender andseveral assistants appeared to drag the unsightly corpses out of the room, while themutilated human vanished wordlessly into the crowd, cradling the stump of his gunarm and counting himself fortunate.
　　To all appearances the cantina had returned to its former state, with one smallexception. Ben Kenobi was given a respectful amount of space at the bar.
　　Luke barely heard the renewed conversation. He was still shaken by the speedof the fight and by the old man's unimagined abilities. As his mind cleared and hemoved to rejoin Kenobi, he could overhear bits and snatches of the talk around him.Much of it centered on admiration for the cleanness and finality of the fight.
　　"You're hurt, Luke," Kenobi observed solicitously.
　　Luke felt of the bruise where the big creature had stuck him. "I´" he started tosay, but old Ben cut him off. As if nothing had happened, he indicated the greathairy mass which was shouldering its way through the crowd toward them.
　　"This is Chewbacca," he explained when the anthropoid had joined them at thebar. "He's first mate on a ship that might suit our needs. He'll take us to hercaptain-owner now."
　　"This way," the Wookie grunted-at least, it sounded something like that to Luke.In any case, the huge creature's follow-me gesture was unmistakable. They startedto wend their way deeper into the bar, the Wookie parting the crowd like a gravelstorm cutting canyonettes.
　　Out in front of the cantina, Threepio paced nervously next to the landspeeder.Apparently unconcerned, Artoo Detoo was engaged in animated electronicconversation with a bright red R-2 unit be longing to another of the cantina's patrons.
　　"What could be taking them so long? They went to hire one ship-not a fleet."
　　Abruptly Threepio paused, beckoning silently for Artoo to be quiet. TwoImperial troopers had appeared on the scene. They were met by an unkempt humanwho had emerged almost simultaneously from the depths of the cantina.
　　"I do not like the looks of this," the tall 'droid murmured.
　　Luke had appropriated someone else's drink from a waiter's tray as they madetheir way to the rear of the cantina. He gulped at it with the giddy air of one whofeels himself under diving protection. That safe he was not, but in the company ofKenobi and the giant Wookie he began to feel confident that no one in the bar wouldassault him with so much as a dirty look.
　　In a rear booth they encountered a sharp-featured young man perhaps five yearsolder than Luke, perhaps a dozen-it was difficult to tell. He displayed the opennessof the utterly confident-or the insanely reckless. At their approach the man sent thehumanoid wench who had been wriggling on his lap on her way with a whisperedsomething which left a wide, if inhuman, grin on her face.
　　The Wookie Chewbacca rumbled something at the man, and he nodded inresponse, glancing up at the newcomers pleasantly.
　　"You're pretty handy with that saber, old man. Not often does one see that kindof swordplay in this part of the Empire anymore." He downed a prodigious portionof whatever filled his mug. "I'm Han Solo, captain of the Millennium Falcon."Suddenly he became all business. "Chewie tells me you're looking for passage tothe Alderaan system?"
　　"That's right, son. If it's on a fast ship," Kenobi told him. Solo didn't bridleat the "son."
　　"Fast ship? You mean you've never heard of the Millennium Falcon?"
　　Kenobi appeared amused. "Should I?"
　　"It's the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve standard timeparts!"Solo told him indignantly. "I've outrun Imperial starships and Corellian cruisers. Ithink she's fast enough for you, old man." His outrage subsided rapidly. "What'syour cargo?"
　　"Only passengers. Myself, the boy, and two 'droids-no questions asked."
　　"No questions." Solo regarded his mug, finally looked up. "Is it local trouble?"
　　"Let's just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial entanglements," Kenobi repliedeasily.
　　"These days that can be a real trick. It'll cost you a little extra." He did somemental figuring. "All in all, about ten thousand. In advance." He added with asmile, "And no questions asked."
　　Luke gaped at the pilot. "Ten thousand! We could almost buy our own shipfor that."
　　Solo shrugged. "Maybe you could and maybe you couldn't. In any case,could you fly it?"
　　"You bet I could," Luke shot back, rising. "I'm not such a bad pilot myself. Idon't-"
　　again the firm hand on his arm. "We haven't that much with us," Kenobiexplained. "But we could pay you two thousand now, plus another fifteen when wereach Alderaan."
　　Solo leaned forward uncertainly. "fifteen´You can really get your hands onthat kind of money?"
　　"I promise it-from the government on Alderaan itself. At the worst, you'llhave earned an honest fee: two thousand."
　　But Solo seemed not to hear the last. "Seventeen thousand´All right, I'llchance it. You've got yourselves a ship. As for avoiding Imperial entanglements,you'd better twist out of here or even the Millennium Falcon won't be any help toyou." He nodded toward the cantina entrance, and added quickly, "Docking bayninety-four, first thing in the morning."
　　Four Imperial troopers, their eyes darting rapidly from table to booth to bar, hadentered the cantina. There was muttering from among the crowd, but whenever theeyes of one of the heavily armed troopers went hunting for the mutterers, the wordsdied with sullen speed.
　　Moving to the bar, the officer in charge asked the bartender a couple of briefquestions. The big man hesitated a moment, then pointed toward a place near theback of the room. As he did so, his eyes widened slightly. Those of the officerwere unreadable.
　　The booth he was pointing to was empty.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  