  

A New Hope
VII

　　Luke and Ben were securing Artoo Detoo in the back of the speeder while Threepiokept a lookout for any additional troops.
　　"If Solo's ship is as fast as his boasting, we should be all right," the old manobserved with satisfaction.
　　"But two thousand-and fifteen more when we reach Alderaan!"
　　"It's not the fifteen that worries me; it's the first two," Kenobi explained. "I'mafraid you'll have to sell your speeder."
　　Luke let his gaze rove over the landspeeder, but the thrill it had once given himwas gone-gone along with other things best not dwelt on.
　　"It's all right," he assured Kenobi listlessly. "I don't think I'll need it again."
　　From their vantage point in another booth, Solo and Chewbacca watched as theImperials strode through the bar. Two of them gave the Corellian a lingering glance.Chewbacca growled once and the two soldiers hurried their pace somewhat.
　　Solo grinned sardonically, turning to his partner. "Chewie, this charter couldsave our necks. Seventeen thousand!" he shook his head in amazement. "Thosetwo must really be desperate. I wonder what they're wanted for. But I agreed, noquestions. They're paying enough for it. Let's get going-the Falcon won't checkitself out."
　　"Going somewhere, Solo?"
　　the Corellian couldn't identify the voice, coming as it did through an electronictranslator. But there was no problem recognizing the speaker or the gun it held stuckin Solo's side.
　　The creature was roughly man-sized and bipedal, but its head was something outof delirium by way of an upset stomach. It had huge, dull-faceted eyes, bulbous on apea-green face. A ridge of short spines crested the high skull, while nostrils andmouth were contained in a tapir-like snout.
　　"As a matter of fact," Solo replied slowly, "I was just on my way to see yourboss. You can tell Jabba I've got the money I owe him."
　　"That's what you said yesterday-and last week-and the week prior to that.It's too late, Solo. I'm not going back to Jabba with another one of your stories."
　　"But I've really got the money this time!" Solo protested.
　　"Fine. I'll take it now, please."
　　Solo sat down slowly. Jabba's minions were apt to be cursed with nervoustrigger fingers. The alien took the seat across from him, the muzzle of the ugly littlepistol never straying from Solo's chest.
　　"I haven't got it here with me. Tell Jabba-"
　　"It's too late, I think. Jabba would rather have your ship.""Over my dead body," Solo said unamiably.
　　The alien was not impressed. "If you insist. Will you come outside with me,or must I finish it here?"
　　"I don't think they'd like another killing in here," Solo pointed out.
　　Something which might have been a laugh came from the creature's translator."They'd hardly notice. Get up, Solo. I've been looking forward to this for a longtime. You've embarrassed me in front of Jabba with your pious excuses for the lasttime."
　　"I think you're right."
　　Light and noise filled the little corner of the cantina, and when it had faded, allthat remained of the unctuous alien was a smoking, slimy spot on the stone floor.
　　Solo brought his hand and the smoking weapon it held out from beneath the table,drawing bemused stares from several of the cantina's patrons and clucking soundsfrom its more knowledgeable ones. They had known the creature had committed itsfatal mistake in allowing Solo the chance to get his hands under cover.
　　"It'll take a lot more than the likes of you to finish me off. Jabba the Hutalways did skimp when it came to hiring his hands.
　　Leaving the booth, Solo flipped the bartender a handful of coins as he andChewbacca moved off. "Sorry for the mess. I always was a rotten host."
　　Heavily armed troopers hurried down the narrow alleyway, glowering from timeto time at the darkly clad beings who hawked exotic goods from dingy little stalls.Here in Mos Eisley's inner regions the walls were high and narrow, turning thepassageway into tunnel.
　　No one stared angrily back at them; no one shouted imprecations or mouthedobscenities. These armored figures moved with the authority of the Empire, theirsidearms boldly displayed and activated. All around, men, not-men, andmechanicals were crouched in waste-littered doorways. Among accumulations ofgarbage and filth they exchanged information and concluded transactions of dubiouslegality.
　　A hot wind moaned down the alleyway and the troopers closed their formation.Their precision and order masked a fear of such claustrophobic quarters.
　　One paused to check a door, only to discover it tightly locked and bolted. Asand-encrusted human shambling nearby visited a half-mad harangue on the trooper.Shrugging inwardly, the soldier gave the crazy human a sour eye before moving ondown the alley to join up again with his fellow.
　　As soon as they were well past, the door slid open a crack and a metallic facepeered out. Below Threepio's leg, a squat barrel shape struggled for a view.
　　"I would rather have gone with Master Luke than stay here with you. Still,orders are orders. I don't quite know what all the trouble is about, but I'm sure itmust be your fault."
　　Artoo responded with a near impossibility: a sniggering beep.
　　"You watch your language," the taller machine warned.
　　The number of old landspeeders and other powered transports in the dusty lotwhich were still capable of motion could be counted on the fingers of one hand. Butthat was not the concern of Luke and Ben as they stood bargaining with the tall,slightly insectoid owner. They were here not to buy, but to sell.
　　None of the passersby favored the hagglers with so much as a curious glance.Similar transactions which were no more pleas or threats to be exchanged. Asthough doling out vials of his own blood, the owner finalized the sale by passing anumber of small metal shapes to Luke. Luke and the insectoid traded formal good-byes and then they parted, each convinced he had gotten the better of the deal.
　　"He says it's the best he can do. Since the XP-38 came out, they just aren't indemand anymore," Luke sighed.
　　"Don't look so discouraged," Kenobi chided him. "What you've obtained willbe sufficient. I've enough to cover the rest."
　　Leaving the main street, they turned down an alleyway and walked past a smallrobot herding along a clutch of creatures resembling attenuated anteaters. As theyrounded the corner Luke strained for a forlorn glimpse of the old landspeeder-hislast link with his former life. Then there was no more time for looking back.
　　Something short and dark that might have been human underneath all itswrappings stepped out of the shadows as they moved away from the corner. Itcontinued staring after them as they disappeared down a bend in the walkway.
　　The docking-bay entrance to the small saucer-shaped spacecraft was completelyringed by half a dozen men and aliens, of which the former were by half the mostgrotesque. A great mobile tub of muscle and suet topped by a shaggy scarred skullsurveyed the semicircle of armed assassins with satisfaction. Moving forward fromthe center of the crescent, he shouted toward the ship.
　　"Come on out, Solo! We've got you surrounded."
　　"If so, you're facing the wrong way," came a calm voice.
　　Jabba the Hut jumped-in itself a remarkable sight. His lackeys likewisewhirled-to see Han Solo and Chewbacca standing behind them.
　　"You see, I've been waiting for you, Jabba."
　　"I expected you would be," the Hut admitted, at once pleased and alarmed by thefact that neither Solo nor the big Wookie appeared to be armed.
　　"I'm not the type to run," Solo said.
　　"Run? Run from what?" Jabba countered. The absence of visible weaponsbothered Jabba more than he cared to admit to himself. There was somethingpeculiar here, and it would be better to make no hasty moves until he discovered whatwas amiss.
　　"Han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint me. I merely wish to knowwhy you haven't paid me´ as you should have long ago. And why did you have tofry poor Greedo like that? After all you and I have been through together."
　　Solo grinned tightly. "Shove it, Jabba. There isn't enough sentiment in yourbody to warm an orphaned bacterium. As for Greedo, you sent him to kill me."
　　"Why, Han," Jabba protested in surprise, "why would I do that? You're the bestsmuggler in the business. You're too valuable to fry. Greedo was only relaying mynatural concern at your delays. He wasn't going to kill you."
　　"I think he thought he was. Next time don't send one of those hired twerps. Ifyou've got something to say, come see me yourself."
　　Jabba shook his head and his jowls shook-lazy, fleshy echoes of his mocksorrow. "Han, Han-if only you understand´I just can't make an exception.Where would I be if every pilot who smuggled for me dumped his shipment at thefirst sign of an Imperial warship? And then simply showed empty pockets when Idemanded recompense? It's not good business. I can be generous and forgiving-but not to the point of bankruptcy."
　　"You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. Did you think I dumped thatspice because I got tired of its smell? I wanted to deliver it as much as you wantedto receive it. I had no choice." Again the sardonic smile. "As you say, I'm toovaluable to fry. But I've got a charter now and I can pay you back, plus a little extra.I just need some more time. I can give you a thousand on account, the rest in threeweeks."
　　The gross form seemed to consider, then directed his next words not to Solo butto his hirelings. "Put your blasters away." His gaze and a predatory smile turned tothe wary Corellian.
　　"Han, my boy, I'm only doing this because you're the best and I'll need youagain sometime. So, out of the greatness of my soul and a forgiving heart-and foran extra, say, twenty percent-I'll give you a little more time." The voice nearlycracked with restraint. "But this is the last time. If you disappoint me again, if youtrample my generosity in your mocking laughter, I'll put a price on your head so largeyou won't be able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your life, because onevery one your name and face will be known to men who'll gladly cut your guts outfor one-tenth of what I'll promise them."
　　"I'm glad we both have my best interests at heart," replied Solo pleasantly as heand Chewbacca started past the staring eyes of the Hut's hired guns. "Don't worry,Jabba, I'll pay you. But not because you threaten me. I'll pay you because´it'smy pleasure."
　　"They're starting to search the spaceport central," the Commander declared,having to alternately run a couple of steps and then walk to keep pace with the longstrides of Darth Vader. The Dark Lord was deep in thought as he strode down one ofthe battle station's main corridors, trailed by several aides.
　　"The reports are just starting to come in," the Commander went on. "It's only amatter of time before we have those 'droids."
　　"Send in more men if you have to. Never mind the protests of the planetaryGovernor-I must have those 'droids. It's her hope of that data being used againstus that is the pillar of her resistance to the mind probes."
　　"I understand, Lord Vader. Until then we must waste our time with GovernorTarkin's foolish plan to break her."
　　"There's docking bay ninety-four," Luke told Kenobi and the robots who hadrejoined them, "and there's Chewbacca. He seems excited about something."
　　Indeed, the big Wookie was waving over the heads of the crowd and jabberingloudly in their direction. Speeding their pace, none of the foursome noticed thesmall, dark-clad thing that had followed them from the transporter lot.
　　The creature moved into the doorway and pulled a tiny transmitter from a pouchconcealed by its multifold robes. The transmitter looked far too new and modern tobe in the grasp of so decrepit a specimen, yet its manipulator was speaking into it withsteady assurance.
　　Docking bay ninety-four, Luke noted, was no different in appearance from a hostof other grandiosely named docking bays scattered throughout Mos Eisley. Itconsisted mostly of an entrance rampway and an enormous pit gouged from the rockysoil. This served as clearance radii for the effects of the simple antigrav drive, whichboosted all spacecraft, clear of the gravitational field of the planet.
　　The mathematics of spacedrive were simple enough even to Luke. Antigravcould operate only when there was a sufficient gravity well to push against-like thatof a planet-whereas supralight travel could only take place when a ship was clear ofthat same gravity. Hence the necessity for the dual-drive system on any extrasystemcraft.
　　The pit, which formed docking bay ninety-four, was as shabbily cut and run-down as the majority of Mos Eisley. Its sloping sides were crumbling in placesinstead of being smoothly fashioned as they were on more populous worlds. Lukefelt it formed the perfect setting for the spacecraft Chewbacca was leading themtoward.
　　That battered ellipsoid which could only loosely be labeled a ship appeared tohave been pieced together out of old hull fragments and components discarded asunusable by other craft. The wonder of it, Luke mused, was that the thing actuallyheld its shape. Trying to picture this vehicle as spaceworthy would have caused himto collapse in hysteria-were the situation not so serious. But to think of traveling toAlderaan in this pathetic´
　　"What a piece of junk," he finally murmured, unable to hide his feelings anylonger. They were walking up the rampway toward the open port. "This thingcouldn't possibly make it into hyperspace."
　　Kenobi didn't comment, but merely gestured toward the port, where a figure wascoming to meet them.
　　Either Solo had supernaturally acute hearing, or else he was used to the reactionthe sight of the Millennium Falcon produced in prospective passengers. "She maynot look like much," he confessed as he approached them, "but she's all go. I'veadded a few unique modifications to her myself. In addition to piloting, I like totinker. She'll make point five factors beyond lightspeed."
　　Luke scratched his head as he tried to reassess the craft in view of its owner'sclaims. Either the Corellian was the biggest liar this side of the galactic center, orthere was more to this vessel than met the eye. Luke thought back once more to oldBen's admonition never to trust surface impressions, and decided to reserve judgmenton the ship and its pilot until after he had watched them in operation.
　　Chewbacca had lingered behind at the docking-bay entrance. Now he rushedup the ramp, a hairy whirlwind, and blabbered excitedly at Solo. The pilot regardedhim coolly, nodding from time to time, then barked a brief reply. The Wookiecharged into the ship, pausing only to urge everyone to follow.
　　"We seem to be a bit rushed," Solo explained cryptically, "so if you'll hurryaboard, we'll be off."
　　Luke was about to venture some questions, but Kenobi was already proddinghim up the ramp. The 'droids followed.
　　Inside, Luke was slightly startled to see the bulky Chewbacca squirm and fighthis way into a pilot's chair which, despite modifications, was still over-whelmed byhis massive form. The Wookie flipped several tiny switches with digits seeminglytoo big for the task. Those great paws drifted with surprising grace over the controls.
　　A deep throbbing started somewhere within the ship as the engines wereactivated. Luke and Ben began strapping themselves into the vacant seats in themain passageway.
　　Outside the docking-bay entrance a long, leathery snout protruded from darkfolds of cloth, and somewhere in the depths to either side of that imposing proboscis,eyes stared intently. They turned, along with the rest of the head, as a squad of eightImperial troops rushed up. Perhaps not surprisingly, they headed straight for theenigmatic figure who whispered something to the lead trooper and gestured to thedocking bay.
　　The information must have been provocative. Activating their weapons andraising them to firing position, the troops charged en masse down the docking-bayentrance.
　　A glint of light on moving metal caught Solo's eyes as the unwelcome outlinesof the first troops showed themselves. Solo thought it unlikely they would pause toengage in casual conversation. His suspicion was confirmed before he could openhis mouth to protest their intrusion, as several dropped to their knees and opened fireon him. Solo ducked back inside, turning to yell forward.
　　"Chewie-deflector shields, quick! Get us out of here!"
　　A throaty roar of acknowledgment came back to him.
　　Drawing his own pistol, Solo managed to snap off a couple of bursts from thecomparative safety of the hatchway. Seeing that their quarry was neither helplessnor comatose, the exposed troops dove for cover.
　　The low throbbing rose to a whine, then to a deafening howl as Solo's hand camedown on the quick-release button. Immediately the overhead hatch-cover slammedshut.
　　As the retreating troops raced out of the docking-bay entrance, the ground wastrembling steadily. They ran smack into a second squad, which had just arrived inresponse to the rapidly spreading emergency call. One of the soldiers, gesticulatingwildly, tried to explain to the newly arrived ranking officer what had happened backin the bay.
　　As soon as the panting trooper had finished, the officer whipped out a compactcommunicator and shouted into it, "Flight deck´they're trying to escape! Sendeverything you've got after this ship."
　　All across Mos Eisley, alarms began to sound, spreading out from docking bayninety-four in concentric circles of concern.
　　Several soldiers scouring one alleyway reacted to the citywide alarm at the sametime as they saw the small freighter lift gracefully into the clear blue sky above MosEisley. It shrank to a pinpoint before any of them thought to bring a weapon to bear.
　　Luke and Ben were already undoing their acceleration straps as Solo walked pastthem, moving toward the cockpit with the easy, loose-limbed stride of the experiencedspacer. Once forward, he fell rather than sat in the pilot's seat and immediatelybegan checking readouts and gauges. In the seat next to him Chewbacca wasgrowling and grunting like a poorly tuned speeder engine. He turned from studyinghis own instruments long enough to jab a massive finger at the tracking screen.
　　Solo gave it a quick glance, then turned irritably to his own panel. "I know, Iknow´looks like two, maybe three destroyers. Somebody certainly dislikes ourpassengers. Sure picked ourselves a hot one this time. Try to hold them offsomehow until I can finish the programming for the supralight jump. Angle thedeflectors for maximum shielding."
　　With those instructions he ceased conversing with the huge Wookie as his handsflew over the computer-input terminals. Solo did not even turned around when asmall cylindrical shape appeared in the doorway behind him. Artoo Detoo beeped afew remarks, then scurried away.
　　Rear scanners showed the baleful lemon eye of Tatooine shrinking rapidlybehind them. It wasn't rapid enough to eliminate the three points of light thatindicated the presence of the pursuing Imperial warships.
　　Although Solo had ignored Artoo, he turned to acknowledge the entrance of hishuman passengers. "We've got two more coming in from different angles," he toldthem, scrutinizing the remorseless instrumentation. "They're going to try box upbefore we can jump. Five ships´What did you two do to attract that kind ofcompany?"
　　"Can't you outrun them?" Luke asked sarcastically, ignoring the pilot's questionthe pilot's question. "I thought you said this thing was fast."
　　"Watch your mouth, kid, or you'll find yourself floating home. There's toomany of 'em, for one thing. But, we'll be safe enough once we've made the jumpinto hyperspace." He grinned knowingly. "Can't nobody track another shipaccurately at supralight speeds. Plus, I know a few tricks that ought to lose anypersistent stick-tights. I wish I'd known you boys were so popular."
　　"Why?" Luke said challengingly. "Would you have refused to take us?"
　　"Not necessarily," the Corellian replied, refusing to be baited. "But I sure's hellwould've boosted your fare."
　　Luke had a retort poised on his lips. It was wiped out as he threw up his armsto ward off a brilliant red flash which gave black space outside the viewport thetemporary aspect of the surface of a sun. Kenobi, Solo and even Chewbacca didlikewise, since the proximity of the explosion nearly overrode the phototropicshielding.
　　"Here's where the situation gets interesting," Solo muttered.
　　"How long before you can make the jump?" Kenobi inquired easily, apparentlyunconcerned that at any second they all might cease to exist.
　　"We're still within the gravitational influence of Tatooine," came the coolresponse. "It will be a few minutes yet before the navigation computer cancompensate and effect an accurate jump. I could override its decision, but thehyperdrive would likely shred itself. That would give me a nice hold full of scrapmetal in addition to you four."
　　"A few minutes," Luke blurted, staring at the screens. "At the rate they'regaining´"
　　"Traveling through hyperspace isn't like dusting crops, boy. Ever triedcalculating a hyperspace jump?" Luke had to shake his head. "It's no mean trick.Be nice if we rushed it and passed right through a star or some other friendly spatialphenom like a black hole. That would end our trip real quick."
　　Fresh explosions continued to flare close by despite Chewbacca's best efforts atevasion. On Solo's console a red warning light began to flash for attention.
　　"What's that?" Luke wondered nervously.
　　"We're losing a deflector shield," Solo informed him with the air of a man aboutto have a tooth pulled. "Better strap yourselves back in. We're almost ready tomake the jump. It could get bad if we take a near-burst at the wrong moment."
　　Back in the main hold area Threepio was already locked tightly into his seat bymetal arms stronger than any acceleration straps. Artoo swayed back and forthunder the concussion produced by increasingly powerful energy bursts against theship's deflectors.
　　"Was this trip really necessary?" the tall robot muttered in desperation. "I'dforgotten how much I hate space travel." He broke off as Luke and Ben appearedand began strapping themselves back into their chairs.
　　Oddly, Luke was thinking of a dog he had once owned when an immenselypowerful something wrenched at the ship's hull with the strength of a fallen angel.
　　Admiral Motti entered the quiet conference room, his face streaked by the linearlights lining the walls. His gaze went to the spot where Governor Tarkin stoodbefore the curved viewscreen, and he bowed slightly. Despite the evidence of thesmall green gem of a world entered in the screen, he formally announced, "We haveentered the Alderaan system. We await your order."
　　The door signaled and Tarkin made a falsely gentle gesture to the admiral."Wait a moment yet, Motti."
　　The door slid aside and Leia Organa entered, flanked by two armed guards,followed by Darth Vader.
　　"I am-," Tarkin began.
　　"I know who you are," she spat, "Governor Tarkin. I should have expected tofind you holding Vader's leash. I thought I recognized your unique stench when Iwas first brought on board."
　　"Charming to the last," Tarkin declared in a fashion which suggested he wasanything but charmed. "You don't know how hard I found it to sign the order foryour termination." His expression changed to one of mock sorrow. "Of course,had you cooperated in our investigation, things might be otherwise. Lord Vader hasinformed me that your resistance to our traditional methods of inquiry-"
　　"Torture, you mean," she countered a trifle shakily.
　　"Let us not bandy semantics," Tarkin smiled.
　　"I'm surprised you had the courage to take the responsibility for issuing the orderon yourself."
　　Tarkin sighed reluctantly. "I am a dedicated man, and the pleasures I reservedfor myself are few. One of them is that before your execution I should like you to bemy guest at a small ceremony. It will certify this battle station's operational statuswhile at the same time ushering in a new era of Imperial technical supremacy. Thisstation is the final link in the new-forged Imperial chain which will bind the millionsystems of the galactic Empire together once and for all. Your petty Alliance will nolonger be of any concern to us. After today's demonstration no one will dare toopposite Imperial decree, not even the Senate."
　　Organa looked at him with contempt. "Force will not keep the Empire together.Force has never kept anything together for very long. The more you tighten yourgrip, the more systems will slip through your fingers. You're a foolish man,Governor. Foolish men often choke to death on their own delusions."
　　Tarkin smiled a death's-head smile, his face a parchment skull's. "It will beinteresting to see what manner of passing Lord Vader has in mind for you. I amcertain it will be worthy of your-and of him.
　　"But before you leave us, we must demonstrate the power of this station onceand for all, in a conclusive fashion. In a way, you have determined the choice ofsubject for this demonstration. Since you have proven reluctant to supply us withthe location of the rebel stronghold, I have deemed it appropriate to select as analternate subject your home planet of Alderaan."
　　"No! You can't! Alderaan is a peaceful world, with no standing armies.You can't´"
　　Tarkin's eyes gleamed. "You would prefer another target? A military target,perhaps? We're agreeable grow tired of such games. For the last time, where is themain rebel base?"
　　A voice announced over a hidden speaker that they had approached withinantigrav range of Alderaan-approximately six planetary diameters. That wasenough to accomplish what all of Vader's infernal devices had failed to.
　　"Dantooine," she whispered, staring at the deck, all pretense at defiance gonenow. "They're on Dantooine."
　　Tarkin let out a slow sigh of satisfaction, then turned to the black figure nearby."There, you see, Lord Vader? She can be reasonable. One needs only frame thequestion properly to elicit the desired response." He directed his attention to theother officers. "After concluding our little test here we shall make haste to move onto Dantooine. You may proceed with the operation, gentlemen."
　　It took several seconds for Tarkin's words, so casually uttered, to penetrate."What!" Organa finally gasped.
　　"Dantooine," Tarkin explained, examining his fingers, "is too far from thecenters of Imperial population to serve as the subject of an effective demonstration.You will understand that for reports of our power to spread rapidly through theEmpire we require an obstreperous world more centrally located. Have no fear,though. We will deal with your rebel friends on Dantooine as soon as possible."
　　"But you said´" Organa started to protest.
　　"The only words which have meaning are the last ones spoken," Tarkin declaredcuttingly. "We will proceed with destruction of Alderaan as planned. Then youwill enjoy watching with us as we obliterate the Dantooine center of this stupid andfutile rebellion."
　　He gestured to the two soldiers flanking her. "escort her to the principalobservation level and," he smiled, "make certain she is provided with an unobstructedview."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  