  

A New Hope
VIII

　　Solo was busily checking readouts from gauges and dials in the hold area.Occasionally he would pass a small box across various sensors, study the result, andcluck with pleasure.
　　"You can stop worrying about your Imperial friends," he told Luke and Ben."They'll never be able to track us now. Told you I'd lose them."
　　Kenobi might have nodded briefly in response, but he was engaged in explainingsomething to Luke.
　　"Don't everybody thank me at once," Solo grunted, slightly miffed. "Anyway,navigation computer calculates our arrival in Alderaan orbit at oh-two-hundred. I'mafraid after this little adventure I'll have to forge a new registration."
　　He returned to his checking, passing in front of a small circular table. The topwas covered with small squares lit from beneath, while computer monitors were setinto each side. Tiny three-dimensional figures were projected above the tabletopfrom various squares.
　　Chewbacca sat hunched over on side of the table, his chin resting in massivehands. His great eyes glowing and facial whiskers wrinkled upward, he gave everysign of being well pleased with himself.
　　At least, he did until Artoo Detoo reached up with a stubby clawed limb acrossfrom him and tapped his own computer monitor. One of the figures walked abruptlyacross the board to a new square and stopped there.
　　An expression of puzzlement, then anger crossed the Wookie's face as he studiedthe new configuration. Glaring up and over the table, he vented a stream of abusivegibberish on the inoffensive machine. Artoo could only beep in reply, but Threepiosoon interceded on behalf of his less eloquent companion and began arguing with thehulking anthropoid.
　　"He executed a fair move. Screaming about it won't help you."
　　Attracted by the commotion, Solo looked back over his shoulder, frowningslightly. "Let him have it. Your friend's way ahead anyhow. It's not wise to upseta Wookie."
　　"I can sympathize with that opinion, sir," Threepio countered, "but there isprinciple at stake here. There are certain standards any sentient creature must holdto. If one compromises them for any reason, including intimidation, then one isabrogating his right to be called intelligent."
　　"I hope you'll both remember that," Solo advised him, "when Chewbacca ispulling the arms off you and your little friend."
　　"Besides that, however," Threepio continued without missing a beat, "beinggreedy or taking advantage of someone in a weakened position is a clear sign of poorsportsmanship."
　　That elicited a beep of outrage from Artoo, and the two robots were soonengaged in violent electronic argument while Chewbacca continued jabbering at eachin turn, occasionally waving at them though the translucent pieces waiting patientlyon the board.
　　Oblivious to the altercation, Luke stood frozen in the middle of the hold. Heheld an activated lightsaber in position over his head. A low hum came from theancient instrument while Luke lunged and parried under Ben Kenobi's instructivegaze. As Solo glanced from time to time at Luke's awkward movements, his leanfeatures were sprinkled with smugness.
　　"No, Luke, you cuts should flow, not be so choppy," Kenobi instructed gently."Remember, the force is omnipresent. It envelops you as it radiates from you. AJedi warrior can actually feel the force as a physical thing."
　　"It is an energy field, then?" Luke inquired.
　　"It's an energy field and something more," Kenobi went on, almost mystically."An aura that at once controls and obeys. It is a nothingness that can accomplishmiracles." He looked thoughtful for a moment.
　　"No one, not even the Jedi scientists, were able to truly define the force.Possibly no one ever will. Sometimes there is as much magic as science in theexplanations of the force. Yet what is a magician but a practicing theorist? Now,let's try again."
　　The old man was hefting a silvery globe about the size of a man's fist. It wascovered with fine antennae, some as delicate as those of a moth. He flipped ittoward Luke and watched as it halted a couple of meters away from the boy's face.
　　Luke readied himself as the ball circled him slowly, turning to face it as itassumed a new position. Abruptly it executed a lightning-swift lunge, only to freezeabout a meter away. Luke failed to succumb to the feint, and the balls soon backedoff.
　　Moving slowly to one side in an effort to get around the ball's fore sensors, Lukedrew the saber back preparatory to striking. As he did so the ball darted in behindhim. A thin pencil of red light jumped from one of the antennae to the back ofLuke's thigh, knocking him to the deck even as he was bringing his saber around-too late.
　　Rubbing at his tingling, sleeping leg, Luke tried to ignore the burst of accusinglaughter from Solo. "Hocus-pocus religions and archaic weapons are no substitutefor a good blaster at your side," the pilot sneered.
　　"You don't believe in the force?" asked Luke, struggling back to his feet. Thenumbing effect of the beam wore off quickly.
　　"I've been from one end of this galaxy to the other," the pilot boasted, "and I'veseen a lot of strange things. To many to believe there couldn't be something like this'force.' Too many to think that there could be some such controlling one's actions.I determine my destiny-not some half-mystical energy field." He gestured towardKenobi. "I wouldn't follow him so blindly, if I were you. He's a clever old man,full of simple tricks and mischief. He might be using you for his own ends."
　　Kenobi only smiled gently, then turned back to face Luke. "I suggest you try itagain, Luke," he said soothingly. "You must try to divorce your actions fromconscious control. Try not to focus on anything concrete, visually or mentally. Youmust let your mind drift, drift; only then can you use the force. You have to enter astate in which you act on what you sense, not on what you think beforehand. Youmust cease cogitation, relax, stop thinking´let yourself drift´free´free´"
　　The old man's voice had dropped to a mesmerizing buzz. As he finished, thechrome bulb darted at Luke. Dazed by Kenobi's hypnotic tone, Luke didn't see itcharge. It's doubtful he saw much of anything with clarity. But as the ball neared,he whirled with amazing speed, the saber arcing up and out in a peculiar fashion.The red beam that the globe emitted was neatly deflected to one side. It hummingstopped and the ball bounced to the deck, all animation gone.
　　Blinking as if coming awake from a short nap, Luke stared in absoluteastonishment at the inert remote.
　　"You see, you can do it," Kenobi told him. "One can teach only so much.Now you must learn to admit the force when you want it, so that you can learn tocontrol it consciously."
　　Moving to one side, Kenobi took a large helmet from behind a locker and walkedover to Luke. Placing the helmet over his head effectively eliminated the boy'svision.
　　"I can't see," Luke muttered, turning around and forcing Kenobi to step back outof range of the dangerously wavering saber. "How can I fight?"
　　"With the force," old Ben explained. "You didn't really 'see' the seeker whenyou parried its beam. Try to let that sensation flow within you again."
　　"I can't do it," Luke moaned. "I'll get hit again."
　　"Not if you let yourself trust you," Kenobi insisted, none too convincingly forLuke. "This is the only way to be certain you're replying wholly on the force."
　　Noticing that the Corellian had turned to watch, Kenobi hesitated momentarily.It did Luke no good to have the self-assured pilot laugh every time a mistake wasmade. But coddling the boy would do him no good either, and there was no time forit anyway. Throw him in and hope he floats, Ben instructed himself firmly.
　　Bending over the chrome globe, he touched a control at its side. Then he tossedit straight up. It arched toward Luke. Braking in midfall, the ball plummetedstone-like toward the deck. Luke swung the saber at it. While it was acommendable try, it wasn't nearly fast enough. Once again the little antenna glowed.This time the crimson needle hit Luke square on the seat of his pants. Though itwasn't an incapacitating below, it felt like one; and Luke let out a yelp of pain as hespun, trying to strike his invisible tormentor.
　　"Relax!" old Ben urged him. "Be free. You're trying to use your eyes andears. Stop predicting and use the rest of your mind."
　　Suddenly the youth stopped, waving slightly. The seeker was still behind him.Changing direction again, it made another dive and fired.
　　Simultaneously the lightsaber jerked around, as accurate as it was awkward in itsmotion, to deflect the bolt. This time the ball didn't fall motionless to the deck.Instead it backed up three meters and remained there, hovering.
　　Aware that the drone of the seeker remote no longer assaulted his ears, a cautiousLuke peeked out from under the helmet. Sweat and exhaustion competed for spaceon his face.
　　"Did I--?"
　　"I told you you could," Kenobi informed him with pleasure. "Once you start totrust your inner self there'll be no stopping you. I told you there was much of yourfather in you."
　　"I'd call it luck," snorted Solo as he concluded his examination of the readouts.
　　"In my experience there is no such thing as luck, my young friend-only highlyfavorable adjustments of multiple factors to incline events in one's favor."
　　"Call it what you like," the Corellian sniffed indifferently, "but good against amechanical remote is one thing. Good against a living menace is another."
　　As he was speaking a small telltale light on the far side of the hold had begunflashing. Chewbacca noticed it and called out to him.
　　Solo glanced at the board, then informed his passengers, "We're coming up onAlderaan. We'll be slowing down shortly and going back under lightspeed. Comeon, Chewie."
　　Rising from the game table, the Wookie followed his partner toward the cockpit.Luke watched them depart, but his mind wasn't on their imminent arrival at Alderaan.It was burning with something else, something that seemed to grow and mature at theback of his brain as he dwelt on it.
　　"You know," he murmured, "I did feel something. I could almost 'see' theoutlines of the remote." He gestured at the hovering device behind him.
　　Kenobi's voice when he replied was solemn. "Luke, you've taken the first stepinto a larger universe."
　　Dozens of humming, buzzing instruments lent the freighter's cockpit the air of abusy hive. Solo and Chewbacca had their attention locked on the most vital of thoseinstruments.
　　"Steady´stand by, Chewie." Solo adjusted several manual compensators."Ready to go sublight´ready´cut us in, Chewie."
　　The Wookie turned something on the console before him. At the same timeSolo pulled back on a comparatively large lever. Abruptly the long streaks ofDoppler-distorted starlight slowed to hyphen shapes, then finally to familiar bolts offire. A gauge on the console registered zero.
　　Gigantic chunks of glowing stone appeared out of the nothingness, barelyshunted aside by the ship's deflectors. The strain caused the Millennium Falcon tobegin shuddering violently.
　　"What the--?" a thoroughly startled Solo muttered. Next to him, Chewbaccaoffered no comment of his own as he flipped off several controls and activated others.Only the fact that the cautious Solo always emerged from supralight travel with hisdeflectors up-just in case any of many unfriendly folks might be waiting for him-had saved the freighter from instant destruction.
　　Luke fought to keep his balance as he made his way into the cockpit. "What'sgoing on?"
　　"We're back in normal space," Solo informed him, "but we've come out in themiddle of the worst asteroid storm I've ever seen. It's not on any of our charts."He peered hard at several indicators. "According to the galactic atlas, our position iscorrect. Only one thing is missing: Alderaan."
　　"Missing? But-that's crazy!"
　　"I won't argue with you," the Corellian replied grimly, "but look for yourself."He gestured out the port. "I've triple-checked the coordinates, and there's nothingwrong with the nav'puter. We ought to be standing out one planetary diameter fromthe surface. The planet's glow should be filling the cockpit, but-there's nothing outthere. Nothing but debris." He paused. "Judging from the level of wild energyoutside and the amount of solid waste, I'd guess that Alderaan's been blown away.Totally."
　　"Destroyed," Luke whispered, overwhelmed at the specter raised by such anunimaginable disaster. "But-how?"
　　"The Empire," a voice declared firmly. Ben Kenobi had come in behind Luke,and his attention was held by the emptiness ahead as well as the import behind it.
　　"No." Solo was shaking his head slowly. In his own way even he was stunnedby the enormity of what the old man was suggesting. That a human agency had beenresponsible for the annihilation of an entire population, of a planet itself´
　　"No´the entire Imperial fleet couldn't have done this. It would take athousand ships massing a lot more firepower than has ever existed."
　　"I wonder if we should get out of here," Luke was murmuring, trying to seearound the rims of the port. "If by some chance it was the Empire´"
　　"I don't know what's happened here," an angry Solo cursed, "but I'll tell you onething. The Empire isn't-"
　　Muffled alarms began humming loudly as a synchronous light flashed on thecontrol console. Solo bent to the appropriate instrumentation.
　　"Another ship," he announced. "Can't judge the type yet."
　　"A survivor, maybe-someone who might know what happened." Luke venturedhopefully.
　　Ben Kenobi's next words shattered more than that hope. "That's an Imperialfighter."
　　Chewbacca suddenly gave an angry bark. A huge flower of destructionblossomed outside the port, battering the freighter violently. A tiny, double-wingedball raced past the cockpit port.
　　"It followed us!" Luke shouted.
　　"From Tatooine? It couldn't have," objected a disbelieving Solo. "Not inhyperspace."
　　Kenobi was studying the configuration the tracking screen displayed. "You'requite right, Han. It's the short-range Tie fighter."
　　"But where did it come from?" the Corellian wanted to know. "There are noImperial bases near here. It couldn't have been a Tie job."
　　"You saw it pass."
　　"I know. It looked like a Tie fighter-but what about a base?"
　　"It's leaving in a big hurry," Luke noted, studying the tracker. "No matterwhere it's going, if it identifies us we're in big trouble."
　　"Not if I can help it," Solo declared. "Chewie, jam its transmission. Lay in apursuit course."
　　"It would be best to let it go," Kenobi ventured thoughtfully. "It's already toofar out of range."
　　"Not for long."
　　Several minutes followed, during which the cockpit was filled with a tensesilence. Al eyes were on the tracking screen and viewport.
　　At first the Imperial fighter tried a complex evasive course, to no avail. Thesurprisingly maneuverable freighter hung tight on its tail, continuing to make up thedistance between them. Seeing that he couldn't shape his pursuers, the fighter pilothad obviously opened up his tiny engine all the way.
　　Ahead, one of the multitudes of stars was becoming steadily brighter. Lukefrowned. They were moving fast, but not nearly fast enough for any heavenly objectto brighten so rapidly. Something here didn't make sense.
　　"Impossible for a fighter that small to be this deep in space on its own," Soloobserved.
　　"It must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy or something," Lukehypothesized.
　　Solo's comment was gleeful. "Well, he won't be around long enough to tellanyone about us. We'll be on top of him in a minute or two."
　　The star ahead continued to brighten, its glow evidently coming from within. Itassumed a circular outline.
　　"He's heading for that small moon," Luke murmured.
　　"The Empire must have an outpost there," Solo admitted. "Although, accordingto the atlas, Alderaan had no moons." He shrugged it off. "Galactic topographywas never one of my best subjects. I'm only interested in worlds and moons withcustomers on them. But I think I can get him before he gets there; he's almost inrange."
　　They drew steadily nearer. Gradually craters and mountains on the moonbecame visible. Yet there was something extremely odd about them. The craterswere far too regular in outline, the mountains far too vertical, canyons and valleyimpossibly straight and regularized. Nothing as capricious as volcanic action hadformed those features.
　　"That's no moon," Kenobi breathed softly. "That's a space station."
　　"But it's too big to be a space station," Solo objected. "The size of it! It can'tbe artificial-it can't!"
　　"I have a very strange feeling about this," was Luke's comment.
　　Abruptly the usually calm Kenobi was shouting. "Turn the ship around! Let'sget out of here!"
　　"Yes, I think you're right, old man. Full reverse, Chewie."
　　The Wookie started adjusting controls, and the freighter seemed to slow, arcingaround in a broad curve. The tiny fighter leaped instantly toward the monstrousstation until it was swallowed up by its overpowering bulk.
　　Chewbacca chattered something at Solo as the ship shook and strained againstunseen forces.
　　"Lock in auxiliary power!" Solo ordered.
　　Gauges began to whine in protest, and by ones and twos every instrument on thecontrol console sequentially went berserk. Try as he might, Solo couldn't keep thesurface of the gargantuan station from looming steadily larger, larger-until it becamethe heavens.
　　Luke stared wildly at secondary installations as big as mountains, dish antennaelarger than all of Mos Eisley. "Why are we still moving toward it?"
　　"Too late," Kenobi whispered softly. A glance at Solo confirmed his concern.
　　"We're caught in a tractor beam-strongest on I ever saw. It's dragging us in,"the pilot muttered.
　　"You mean, there's nothing you can do?" Luke asked, feeling unbelievablyhelpless.
　　Solo studied the overloaded sensor readouts and shook his head. "Not againstthis kind of power. I'm on full power myself, kid, and it's not shifting out of coursea fraction of a degree. It's no use. I'm going to have to shut down or we'll meltour engines. But they're not going to suck me up like so much dust without a fight!"
　　He started to vacate the pilot's chair, but was restrained by an aged yet powerfulhand on his shoulder. An expression of concern was on the old man's face-and yet,a suggestion of something somewhat less funereal.
　　"If it's a fight you cannot win-well, my boy, there are always alternatives tofighting´"
　　The true size of the battle station became apparent as the freighter was pulledcloser and closer. Running around the station's equator was an artificial cluster ofmetal mountains, docking ports stretching beckoning fingers nearly two kilometersabove the surface.
　　Now only a miniscule speck against the gray bulk of the station, the MillenniumFalcon was sucked toward one of those steel pseudopods and finally swallowed by it.A lake of metal closed off the entryway, and the freighter vanished as if it had neverexisted.
　　Vader stared at the motley array of stars displayed on the conference-room mapwhile Tarkin and Admiral Motti conferred nearby. Interestingly, the first use of themost powerful destructive machine ever constructed had seemingly had no influenceat all on that map, which in itself represented only a tiny fraction of this section of onemodest-sized galaxy.
　　It would take a microbreakdown of a portion of this map to reveal a slightreduction in spatial mass, caused by the disappearance of Alderaan. Alderaan, withits many cities, farms, factories, and towns-and traitors, Vader reminded himself.
　　Despite his advances and intricate technological methods of annihilation, theactions of mankind remained unnoticeable to an uncaring, unimaginably vast universe.If Vader's grandest plans ever came to pass, all that would change.
　　He was well aware that despite all their intelligence and drive, the vastness andwonder were lost on the two men who continued to chatter monkeylike behind him.Tarkin and Motti were talented and ambitious, but they saw things only on the scale ofhuman pettiness. It was a pity, Vader thought, that they did not possess the scope tomatch their abilities.
　　Still, neither man was a Dark Lord. As such, little more could be expected ofthem. These two were useful now, and dangerous, but someday they, like Alderaan,would have to be swept aside. For now he could not afford to ignore them. Andwhile he would have preferred the company of equals, he had to admit reluctantly thatat this point, he had no equals.
　　Nonetheless, he turned to them and insinuated himself into their conversation."The defense systems on Alderaan, despite the Senator's protestations to the contrary,were as strong as any in the Empire. I should conclude that our demonstration wasas impressive as it was thorough."
　　Tarkin turned to him, nodding. "The Senate is being informed of our action atthis very moment. Soon we will be able to announce the extermination of theAlliance itself, as soon as we have dealt with their main military base. Now thattheir main source of munitions, Alderaan, has been eliminated, the rest of thosesystems with secessionist inclinations will fall in line quickly enough, you'll see."
　　Tarkin turned as an Imperial officer entered the chamber. "Yes, what is it,Cass?"
　　The unlucky officer wore the expression of the mouse chosen to bell the cat."Governor, the advance scouts have reached and circumnavigated Dantooine. Theyhave found the remains of a rebel base´, which they estimate has been deserted forsome time. Years, possibly. They are proceeding with an extensive survey of theremainder of the system."
　　Tarkin turned apoplectic, his face darkening to a fine pomegranate fury. "Shelied! She lied to us!"
　　No one could see, but it seemed that Vader must have smiled behind his mask."Then we are even in the first exchange of 'truths.' I told you she would neverbetray the rebellion-unless she thought her confession could somehow destroy us inthe process."
　　"Terminate her immediately!" The Governor was barely able to form words.
　　"Calm yourself, Tarkin," Vader advised him. "You would throw away our onlylink to the real rebel base so casually? She can still be of value to us."
　　"Fagh! You just said it yourself, Vader: we'll get nothing more out of her. I'llfind that hidden fortress if I have to destroy every star system in this sector. I'll-"
　　a quiet yet demanding beep interrupted him. "Yes, what is it?" he inquiredirritably.
　　A voice reported over an unseen speaker. "Sirs, we've captured a smallfreighter that was entering the remains of Alderaan. A standard check indicates thatits markings apparently match that of the ship which blasted its way out of thequarantine at Mos Eisley, Tatooine system, and went hyper before the Imperialblockade craft there could close on it."
　　Tarkin looked puzzled. "Mos Eisley? Tatooine? What is this? What's thisall about, Vader?"
　　"It means, Tarkin, that the last of our unresolved difficulties is about to beeliminated. Someone apparently received the missing data tapes, learned whotranscribed them, and was trying to return them to her. We may be able to facilitatetheir meeting with the Senator."
　　Tarkin started to say something, hesitated, then nodded in understanding. "Howconvenient. I leave this matter in your hands, Vader."
　　The Dark Lord bowed slightly, a gesture, which Tarkin acknowledged withperfunctory salute. Then he spun and strode from the room, leaving Motti lookingfrom man to man in confusion.
　　The freighter sat listlessly in the docking hangar of the huge bay. Thirty armedImperial troopers stood before the lowered man ramp leading into the ship. Theysnapped to attention when Vader and a Commander approached. Vader halted at thebase of the ramp, studying the vessel as an officer and several soldiers came forward.
　　"There was no reply to our repeated signals, sir, so we activated the ramp fromoutside. We've made no contact with anyone aboard either by communicator or inperson," the officer reported.
　　"Send your men in," Vader ordered.
　　Turning, the officer relayed to command to a noncom, who barked orders. Anumber of the heavily armored soldiers made their way up the ramp and entered theouter hold. They advanced with appreciable caution.
　　Inside, two men covered a third as he advanced. Moving in groups of three inthis fashion, they rapidly spread through the ship. Corridors rang hollowly undermetal-shod feet, and doors slid aside willingly as they were activated.
　　"Empty," the Sergeant in charge finally declared in surprise. "Check thecockpit."
　　Several troopers made their way forward and slid the portal aside, only todiscover the pilot's chairs as vacant as the rest of the freighter. The controls weredeactivated and all systems shut down. Only a single light on the console winked onand off fitfully. The sergeant moved forward, recognized the source of the light, andactivated the appropriate controls. A printout appeared on a nearby screen. Hestudied it intently, then turned to convey the information to his superior, who waswaiting by the main hatch.
　　That worthy listened carefully before he turned and called down to theCommander and Vader. "There is no one aboard; the ship is completely deserted,sirs. According to the ship's log, her crew abandoned ship immediately after lift-off,then set her on automatics for Alderaan."
　　"Possibly a decoy," the Commander ventured aloud. "Then they should still beon Tatooine!"
　　"Possibly," Vader admitted reluctantly.
　　"Several of the escape pods have been jettisoned," the officer went on.
　　"Did you find any 'droids on board?" Vader called.
　　"No, sir-nothing. If there were any, they must have abandoned the ship alongwith the organic crew."
　　Vader hesitated before replying. When he did so, uncertainty was evident in hisvoice. "This doesn't feel right. Send a fully equipped scanning team on board. Iwant every centimeter of that ship checked out. See to it as soon as possible."With that, he whirled and stalked from the hangar, pursued by the infuriating feelingthat he was overlooking something of vital importance.
　　The rest of the assembled soldiers were dismissed by the officer. On board thefreighter, a last long figure left off examining the space beneath the cockpit consolesand ran to join his comrades. He was anxious to be off this ghost ship and back inthe comfortable surroundings of the barracks. His heavy footsteps echoed throughthe once more empty freighter.
　　Below, the muffled sounds of the officer giving final orders faded, leaving theinterior in complete quiet. The quivering of a portion of the floor was the onlymovement on board.
　　Abruptly the quivering became a sharp, upheaval. Two metal panels poppedupward, followed by a pair of tousled heads. Han Solo and Luke looked aroundquickly, then managed to relax a little when it became clear that the ship was as emptyas it sounded.
　　"Lucky you'd built these compartments," Luke commented.
　　Solo was not as cheerily confident. "Where did you think I kept smuggledgoods-in the main hold? I admit I never expected to smuggle myself in them."He started violently at a sudden sound, but it was only another of the panels shiftingaside.
　　"This is ridiculous. It isn't going to work. Even if I could take off and getpast the closed hatch"-he jabbed a thumb upward-"we'd never get past that tractorbeam."
　　Another panel opened, revealing the face of an elderly imp. "You leave that tome."
　　"I was afraid you'd say something like that," muttered Solo. "You're a damnfool, old man."
　　Kenobi grinned at him. "What does that say of the man who allows himself tobe hired by a fool?"
　　Solo muttered something under his breath as they pulled themselves clear of thecompartments, Chewbacca doing so with a good deal of grunting and twisting.
　　Two technicians had arrived at the base of the ramp. They reported to the twobored soldiers guarding it.
　　"The ship's all yours," one of the troopers told them. "If the scanners pick upanything, report it immediately."
　　The men nodded, then strained to lug their heavy equipment up the ramp. Assoon as they disappeared inside, a loud crash was heard. Both guards whirled, thenheard a voice call, "Hey, down there, could you give us a hand with this?"
　　One trooper looked at his companion, who shrugged. They both started up theramp, muttering at the inefficiency of mere technicians. A second crashing soundreverberated, but now there was no one left to hear it.
　　But the absence of the two troopers was noticed, soon thereafter. A gantryofficer passing the window of a small command office near the freighter entranceglanced out, frowning when he saw no sign of the guards. Concerned but notalarmed, he moved to a comlink and spoke into it as he continued to stare at the ship.
　　"THX-1138, why aren't you at your post? THX-1138, do you copy?"
　　the speaker gave back only static.
　　"THX-1138, why don't you reply?" The officer was beginning to panic whenan armored figure descended the ramp and waved toward him. Pointing to theportion of his helmet covering his right ear, the figure tapped it to indicate thecomlink inside wasn't working.
　　Shaking his head in disgust, the gantry officer gave his busy aide an annoyedlook as he made for the door. "Take over here. We've got another bad transmitter.I'm going to see what I can do. He activated the door, took a step forward as it slidaside-and stumbled backward in a state of shock.
　　Filling the door completely was a towering hairy form. Chewbacca leanedinward and with a bone-splintering howl flattened the benumbed officer with oneswipe of a pan-sized fist.
　　The aide was already on his feet and reaching for his sidearm when a narrowenergy beam passed completely through him, piercing his heart. Solo flipped up thefaceplate of his trooper helmet, then slid it back into place as he followed the Wookieinto the room. Kenobi and the 'droids squeezed in behind him, with Luke, also cladin the armor of a luckless Imperial soldier, bringing up the rear.
　　Luke was looking around nervously as he shut the door behind them. "Betweenhis howling and your blasting everything in sight, it's a wonder the entire stationdoesn't know we're here."
　　"Bring 'em on," Solo demanded, unreasonably enthused by their success so far."I prefer a straight fight to all this sneaking around.""Maybe you're in a hurry to die," Luke snapped, "but I'm not. All this sneakingaround has kept us alive."
　　The Corellian gave Luke a sour eye but said nothing.
　　They watched as Kenobi operated an incredibly complex computer console withthe ease and confidence of one long accustomed to handling intricate machinery. Ascreen lit up promptly with a map of sections of the battle station. The old manleaned forward, scrutinizing the display carefully.
　　Meanwhile, Threepio and Artoo had been going over an equally complicatedcontrol panel nearby. Artoo suddenly froze and began whistling wildly at somethinghe had found. Solo and Luke, their momentary disagreement over tactics forgotten,rushed over to where the robots were standing. Chewbacca busied himself hangingthe gentry officer up by his toes.
　　"Plug him in," Kenobi suggested, looking over from his place before the largerreadout. "He should be able to draw information from the entire station network.Let's see if he can find out where the tractor beam power unit is located."
　　"Why not just disconnect the beam from here, sir?" Luke wanted to know.
　　It was Solo who replied derisively, "What, and have them lock it right back on usbefore we can get a ship's length outside the docking bay?"
　　Luke looked crestfallen. "Oh. I hadn't thought of that."
　　"We have to break the tractor at its power source in order to execute a cleanescape, Luke," old Ben chided gently as Artoo punched a claw arm into the opencomputer socket he had discovered. Immediately a galaxy of lights came to life onthe panel in front of him and the room was filled with the hum of machinery workingat high speed.
　　Several minutes passed while the little 'droid sucked up information like a metalsponge. Then the hum slowed and he turned to beep something back at them.
　　"He's found it, sir!" Threepio announced excitedly.
　　"The tractor beam is coupled to the main reactors at seven locations. Most ofthe pertinent data is restricted, but he'll try to pull the critical information through tothe monitor."
　　Kenobi turned his attention from the larger screen to a small readout near Artoo.Data began to race across it too fast for Luke to see, but apparently Kenobi somehowmade something of the schematic blur. "I don't think there's any way you boys canhelp with this," he told them. "I must go alone."
　　"That suits me fine," said Solo readily. "I've already done more than Ibargained for on this trip. But I think putting that tractor beam out of commission'sgoing to take more than your magic, old man."
　　Luke wasn't put off so easily. "I want to go with you."
　　"Don't be impatient, young Luke. This requires skills you haven't yet mastered.Stay and wait for my signal. They must be delivered to the rebel forces or manymore worlds will meet the same fate as Alderaan. Trust in the force, Luke-andwait."
　　With a last look at the flow of information on the monitor, Kenobi adjusted thelightsaber at his waist. Stepping to the door, he slid it aside, looked once left, onceright, and, disappeared down a long, glowing hallway.
　　As soon as he was gone Chewbacca growled and Solo nodded agreement."You said it, Chewie!" He turned to Luke. "Where'd you dig up that old fossil?"
　　"Ben Kenobi-General Kenobi-is a great man," Luke protested loftily.
　　"Great at getting us into trouble," Solo snorted. "'General,' my afterburners!He's not going to get us out of here."
　　"You got any better ideas?" Luke shot back challengingly.
　　"Anything would be better than just waiting here for them to come and pick usup. If we-"
　　A hysterical whistling and hooting came from the computer console. Lukehurried over to Artoo Detoo. The little 'droid was all but hopping about on stubbylegs.
　　"What now?" Luke asked Threepio.
　　The taller robot looked puzzled himself. "I'm afraid I don't understand either,sir. He says, 'I found her,' and keeps repeating, 'She's here, she's here!' "
　　"Who? Who has he found?"
　　Artoo turned a flat blinking face toward Luke and whistled frantically.
　　"Princess Leia," the announced after listening carefully. "Senator Organa-they seem to be one and the same. I believe she may be the person in the message hewas carrying."
　　That three-dimensional portrait of indescribable beauty coalesced in Luke's mindagain. "The Princess? She's here?"
　　Attracted by the commotion, Solo wandered over. "Princess? What's goingon?"
　　"Where? Where is she?" Luke demanded breathlessly, ignoring Solocompletely.
　　Artoo whistled on while Threepio translated. "Level five, detention block AA-23. According to the information, she is scheduled for slow termination."
　　"No! We've got to do something."
　　"What are you three blabbering about?" an exasperated Solo demanded.
　　"She's the one who programmed the message into Artoo Detoo," Luke explainedhurriedly, "the one we were trying to deliver to Alderaan. We've got to help her."
　　"Now, just a minute," Solo cautioned him. "This is going awful fast for me.Don't get any funny ideas. When I said I didn't have any 'better ideas' I meant it.The old man said to wait here. I don't like it, but I'm not going off on some crazymaze through this place."
　　"But Ben didn't know she was here," Luke half pleaded, half argued. "I'm surethat if he knew he would have changed his plans." Anxiety turned to thoughtfulness."Now, if we could just figure a way to get into that detention block´"
　　Solo shook his head and stepped back. "Huh-uh-I'm not going into anyImperial detention blocks."
　　"If we don't do something, they're going to execute her. A minute ago you saidyou didn't just want to sit here and wait to be captured. Now all you want to do isstay. Which is it, Han?"
　　The Corellian looked troubled-and confused. "Marching into a detentionarea's not what I had in mind. We're likely to end up there anyway-why rush it?"
　　"But they're going to execute her!"
　　"Better her than me."
　　"Where's your sense of chivalry, Han?"
　　Solo considered. "Near as I can recall, I traded it for a ten-carat chrysopaz andthree bottles of good brandy about five years ago on Commenor."
　　"I've seen her," Luke persisted desperately. "She's beautiful."
　　"So's life."
　　"She's a rich and powerful Senator," Luke pressed, hoping an appeal to Solo'sbaser instincts might be more effective. "If we could save her, the reward could besubstantial."
　　"Uh´rich?" Then Solo looked disdainful. "Wait a minute´Reward, fromwhom? From the government on Alderaan?" He made a sweeping gesture towardthe hangar and by implication the space where Alderaan had once orbited.
　　Luke thought furiously. "If she's being held here and is scheduled to beexecuted, that means she must be dangerous in some way to whoever destroyedAlderaan, to whoever had this station built. You can bet it had something to do withthe Empire instituting a reign of full repression.
　　"I'll tell you who'll pay for her rescue, and for the information she holds. TheSenate, the rebel Alliance, and every concern that did business with Alderaan. Shecould be the sole surviving heir of the off-world wealth of the entire system! Thereward could be more than you can imagine."
　　"I don't know´I can imagine quite a bit." He glanced at Chewbacca, whogrunted a terse reply. Solo shrugged back at the big Wookie. "All right, we'll giveit a try. But you'd better be right about that reward. What's your plan, kid?"
　　Luke was momentarily taken aback. Al his energies up till now had beenconcentrated on persuading Solo and Chewbacca to aid in a rescue attempt. Thataccomplished, Luke became aware he had no idea how to proceed. He had grownused to old Ben and Solo giving directions. Now the next move was up to him.
　　His eyes were caught by several metal circlets dangling from the belt of Solo'sarmor. "Give me those binders and tell Chewbacca to come over there."
　　Solo handed Luke the thin but quite unbreakable cuffs and relayed the request toChewbacca. The Wookie lumbered over and stood waiting next to Luke.
　　"Now, I'm going to put these on you," Luke began, starting to move behind theWookie with the cuffs, "and-"
　　Chewbacca made a sound low in his throat, and Luke jumped in spite of himself."Now," he began again, "Han is going to put these on you and´" he sheepishlyhanded the binders to Solo, uncomfortably aware of the enormous anthropoid'sglowing eyes on him.
　　Solo sounded amused as he moved forward. "Don't worry, Chewie. I think Iknow what he has in mind."
　　The cuffs barely fit around the thick wrists. Despite his partner's seemingconfidence in the plan, the Wookie wore a worried, frightened look as the restraintswere activated.
　　"Luke, sir." Luke looked over at Threepio. "Pardon me for asking, but ah-what should Artoo and I do if someone discovers us here in your absence?"
　　"Hope they don't have blasters," Solo replied.
　　Threepio's tone indicated he didn't find the answer humorous. "That isn't veryreassuring."
　　Solo and Luke were too engrossed in their coming expedition to pay muchattention to the worried robot. They adjusted their helmets. Then, with Chewbaccawearing a half-real downcast expression, they started off along corridor where BenKenobi had disappeared.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  