  

A New Hope
IX

　　As they traveled father and deeper into the bowels of the gigantic station, they foundit increasingly difficult to maintain an air of casual indifference. Fortunately, thosewho might have sensed some nervousness on the part of the two armored trooperswould regard it as only natural, considering their huge, dangerous Wookie captive.Chewbacca also made it impossible for the two young men to be as inconspicuous asthey would have liked. 
　　The farther they traveled, the heavier the traffic became. Other soldiers,bureaucrats, technicians, and mechanicals bustled around them. Intent on their ownassignments, they ignored the trio completely, only a few of the humans sparing theWookie a curious glance. Chewbacca's morose expression and the seemingconfidence of his captors reassured the inquisitive.
　　Eventually they reached a wide bank of elevators. Luke breathed a sigh ofrelief. The computer-controlled transport ought to be capable of taking them justabout anywhere on the station in response to a verbal command.
　　There was a nervous second when a minor official raced to get aboard. Sologestured sharply, and the other, without voicing a protest, shifted to the next elevatortube in line.
　　Luke studied the operating panel, then tried to sound at once knowledgeable andimportant as he spoke into the pickup grid. Instead, he sounded nervous and scared,but the elevator was a pure-response mechanism, not programmed to differentiate theappropriateness of emotions conveyed vocally. So the door slid shut and they wereon their way. After what felt like hours but was in reality only minutes, the dooropened and they stepped out into the security area.
　　It had been Luke's hope they would discover something like the old-fashionedbarred cells of the kind used on Tatooine in towns like Mos Eisley. Instead, they sawonly narrow ramps bordering a bottomless ventilation shaft. These walkways,several levels of them, ran parallel to smooth curving walls which held facelessdetention cells. Alert-looking guards and energy gates seemed to be everywherethey looked.
　　Uncomfortably aware that the longer they stood frozen in place, the soonersomeone was bound to come over and ask unanswerable questions, Luke searchedfrantically for a course of action.
　　"This isn't going to work," Solo whispered, leaning toward him.
　　"Why didn't you say so before?" a frustrated, frightened Luke shot back.
　　"I think I did. I-"
　　"Shssh!"
　　Solo shuts up Luke's worst fears were realized. A tall, grim-looking officerapproached them. He frowned as he examined the silent Chewbacca.
　　"Where are you two going with this-thing?"
　　Chewbacca snarled at the remark, and Solo quieted him with a hasty jab in theribs. A panicky Luke found himself replying almost instinctively. "Prisonertransfer from block TS-138."
　　The officer looked puzzled. "I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it."
　　Turning, the man walked to a small console nearby and began entering hisrequest. Luke and Han hurriedly surveyed the situation, their gaze traveling fromalarms, energy gates, and remote photosensors to the three other guards station in thearea.
　　Solo nodded to Luke as he unfastened Chewbacca's cuffs. Then he whisperedsomething to the Wookie. An ear-splitting howl shook the corridor as Chewbaccathrew up both hands, grabbing Solo's rifle from him.
　　"Look out!" a seemingly terrified Solo shouted. "It's loose. It'll rip us allapart!"
　　both he and Luke had darted clear of the rampaging Wookie, pulled out theirpistols, and were blasting away at him. Their reaction was excellent, theirenthusiasm undeniable, and their aim execrable. Not a single shot came close to thedodging Wookie. Instead, they blasted automatic cameras, energy-rate controls, andthe three dumbfounded guards.
　　At this point it occurred to the officer in charge that the abominable aim of thetwo soldiers was a bit too selectively efficient. He was preparing to jab the generalalarm when a burst from Luke's pistol caught him in the midsection and he fellwithout a word to the gray deck.
　　Solo rushed to the open comlink speaker, which was screeching anxiousquestions about what was going on. Apparently there were audio as well as visuallinks between this detention station and elsewhere.
　　Ignoring the barrage of alternate threats and queries, he checked the readout setin the panel nearby. "We've got to find out which cell this Princess of yours is in.There must a dozen levels and-Here it is. Cell 2187. Go on-Chewie and I'llhold them here."
　　Luke nodded once and was racing down the narrow walkway.
　　After gesturing for the Wookie to take up a position where he could cover theelevators, Solo took a deep breath and responded to the unceasing calls from thecomlink.
　　"Everything's under control," he said into the pickup, sounding reasonablyofficial. "Situation normal."
　　"It didn't sound like that," a voice snapped back in a no-nonsense tone. "Whathappened?"
　　"Uh, well, one of the guards experienced a weapon malfunction," Solostammered, his temporary officialese lapsing into nervousness. "No problem now-we're all fine, thanks. How about you?"
　　"We're sending a squad up," the voice announced suddenly.
　　Han could almost smell the suspicion at the other end. What to say? Hespoke more eloquently with the business end of a pistol.
　　"Negative-negative. We have an energy leak-very dangerous."
　　"Weapon malfunction, energy leak´Who is this? What's your operating-?"
　　Pointing his pistol at the panels, Solo blew the instrumentation to silent scraps."It was a dumb conversation anyway," he murmured. Turning, he shouted down thecorridor. "Hurry it up. Luke! We're going to have company."
　　Luke heard, but he was absorbed in running from one cell to the next andstudying the numbers glowing above each doorway. The cell 2187, it appeared, didnot exist. But it did, and he found it just as he was about to give up and try the nextlevel down.
　　For a long moment he examined the featureless convex metal wall. Turning hispistol to maximum and hoping it wouldn't melt in his hand before it broke through, heopened fire on the door. When the weapon became too hot to hold, he tossed it fromhand to hand. As he did so the smoke had time to clear, and he saw with somesurprise that the door had been blown away.
　　Peering through the smoke with an uncomprehending look on her face was theyoung woman whose portrait Artoo Detoo had projected in a garage on Tatooineseveral centuries ago, or it seemed.
　　She was even more beautiful than her image, Luke decided, staring dazedly ather. "You're even-more beautiful-than I-"
　　Her look of confusion and uncertainty was replaced by first puzzlement and thenimpatience. "Aren't you a littler short for a storm trooper?" she finally commented.
　　"What? Oh-the uniform." He removed the helmet, regaining a littlecomposure at the same time. "I've come to rescue you. I'm Luke Skywalker."
　　"I beg your pardon?" she said politely.
　　"I said, I've come to rescue you. Ben Kenobi is with me. We've got yourtwo 'droids-"
　　The uncertainty was instantly replaced by hope at the mention of the oldster'sname. "Ben Kenobi!" She looked around Luke, ignoring him as she searched forthe Jedi. "Where is he? Obi-wan!"
　　Governor Tarkin watched as Darth Vader paced rapidly back and forth in theotherwise empty conference room. Finally the Dark Lord paused, glancing aroundas though a great bell only he could hear had rung somewhere close by.
　　"He is here," Vader stated unemotionally.
　　Tarkin looked startled. "Obi-wan Kenobi! That's impossible. What makesyou think so?"
　　"A stirring in the force, of a kind I've felt only in the presence of my old master.It is unmistakable."
　　"Surely-surely he must be dead by now."
　　Vader hesitated, his assurance suddenly gone. "Perhaps´It is gone now. Itwas only a brief sensation."
　　"The Jedi are extinct," declared Tarkin positively. "Their fire was quencheddecades ago. You, my friend, are all that's left of their ways."
　　A comlink buzzed softly for attention. "Yes?" Tarkin acknowledged.
　　"We have an emergency alert in detention block AA-23."
　　"The Princess!" Tarkin yelped, jumping to his feet. Vader whirled, trying tostare through the walls.
　　"I know it-Obi-wan is here. I knew I could not mistake a stirring in the forceof such power."
　　"Put all sections on alert," Tarkin ordered through the comlink. Then he turnedto stare at Vader. "If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape."
　　"Escape may not be Obi-wan Kenobi's intention," Vader replied, struggling tocontrol his emotions. "He is the last of the Jedi-and the greatest. The danger hepresents to us must not be underestimated-yet only I can deal with him." His headsnapped around to stare fixedly at Tarkin. "Alone."
　　Luke and Leia had started back up the corridor when a series of blindingexplosion ripped the walkway ahead of them. Several troopers had tried comingthrough the elevator, only to be crisped one after another by Chewbacca. Disdainingthe elevators, they had blasted a gaping hole through a wall. The opening was toolarge for Solo and the Wookie to cover completely. In twos and threes, the Imperialswere working their way into the detention block.
　　Retreating down the walkway, Han and Chewbacca encountered Luke and thePrincess. "We can't go back that way!" Solo told them, his face flushed withexcitement and worry.
　　"No, it looks like you've managed to cut off our only escape route," Leia agreedreadily. "This is a detention area, you know. They don't build them with multipleexits."
　　Breathing heavily, Solo turned to look her up and down. "Begging yourforgiveness, Your Highness," he said sarcastically, "but maybe you'd prefer it back inyour cell?" She looked away, her face impassive.
　　"There's got to be another way out," Luke muttered, pulling a small transmitterunit from his belt and carefully adjusting the frequency: "See Threepio´SeeThreepio!"
　　a familiar voice responded with gratifying speed. "Yes, sir?"
　　"We've been cut off here. Are there any other ways out of the detention area-anything at all?"
　　Static crackled over the tiny grid as Solo and Chewbacca kept the imperial troopsbottled up at the other end of the walkway.
　　"What was that´? I didn't copy."
　　Back in the gentry office Artoo Detoo beeped and whistled frantically asThreepio adjusted controls, fighting to clear the awkward transmission. "I said, allsystems have been alerted to your presence, sir. The main entry seems to be the onlyway in or out of the cell block." He pressed instruments, and the view on the nearbyreadouts changed steadily. "All other information on your section is restricted."
　　Someone began banging on the locked door to the office-evenly at first andthen, when no response was forthcoming from within, more insistently.
　　"Oh, no!" Threepio groaned.
　　The smoke in the cell corridor was now so intense that it was difficult for Soloand Chewbacca to pick their targets. That was fortunate inasmuch as they were nowbadly outnumbered and the smoke confused the Imperials' fire with equalthoroughness.
　　Every so often one of the soldiers would attempt to move closer, only to standexposed as he penetrated the smoke. Under the accurate fire of the two smugglers,he would rapidly join the accumulating mass of motionless figures on the rampwayflooring.
　　Energy bolts continued to ricochet wildly through the block as Luke moved closeto Solo.
　　"There isn't other way out." he yelled over the deafening roar of concentratedfire.
　　"Well, they're closing in on us. What do we do now?"
　　"This is some rescue," an irritated voice complained from behind them. Bothmen turned to see a thoroughly disgusted Princess eyeing them with regal disapproval."When you came in here, didn't you have a plan of getting out?"
　　Solo nodded toward Luke. "He's the brains, sweetheart."
　　Luke managed an embarrassed grin and shrugged helplessly. He turned to helpreturn fire, but before he could do so, the Princess had snatched the pistol from hishand.
　　"Hey!"
　　Luke stared as she moved along the wall, finally locating a small grate nearby.She pointed the pistol at it and fired.
　　Solo gazed at her in disbelief. "What do you think you're doing?"
　　"It looks like it's up to me to save our skins. Get into the garbage chute,flyboy!"
　　While the others looked on in amazement, she jumped feet first into the openingand disappeared. Chewbacca rumbled threateningly, but Solo slowly shook his head.
　　"No, Chewie, I don't want you to rip her apart. I'm not sure about her yet.Either I'm beginning to like her, or I'm going to kill her myself." The Wookiesnorted something else, and Solo yelled back at him, "Go on in, you furry oaf! Idon't care what you smell. This is no time to go dainty on me."
　　Shoving the reluctant Wookie toward the tiny opening, Solo helped jam themassive bulk through. As soon as he disappeared, the Corellian followed him in.Luke fired off the last series of blasts, more in the hope of creating a covering smokethan hitting anything, slid into the chute, and was gone.
　　Not wanting to incur further losses in such a confined space, the pursuingsoldiers had momentarily halted to await the arrival of reinforcements and heavierweapons. Besides, they had their quarry trapped, and despite their dedication, noneof them were anxious to die needlessly.
　　The chamber Luke tumbled into was dimly lit. not that the light was needed todiscern its contents. He smelled the decay long before he was dumped into it.Unadorned except for the concealed illuminants, the garbage room was at least aquarter full of slimy muck, much of which had already achieved a state ofdecomposition sufficient to wrinkle Luke's nose.
　　Solo was stumbling around the edge of the room, slipping and sinking up to hisknees in the uncertain footing in an attempt to locate an exit. Al he found was asmall, thick hatchway, which he grunted and heaved to pry open. The hatchcoverrefused to budge.
　　"The garbage chute was a wonderful idea," he told the Princess sardonically,wiping the sweat from his forehead. "What an incredible smell you've discovered.Unfortunately, we can't ride out here on a drifting odor, and there doesn't seem to beany other exit. Unless I can get this hatch open."
　　Stepping back, he pulled his pistol and fired at the cover. The bolt promptlywent howling around the room as everyone sought cover in the garbage. A lastglance and the bolt detonated almost on top of them.
　　Looking less dignified by the moment, Leia was the first to emerge from thepungent cover. "Put that thing away," she told Solo grimly, "or you're going to getus all killed."
　　"Yes, Your Worship," Solo muttered in snide supplication. He made no moveto reholster his weapon as he glanced back up toward the open chute above. "Itwon't take long for them to figure out what happened to us. We had things wellunder control-until you led us down here."
　　"Sure you did," she shot back, brushing refuse from her hair and shoulders."Oh, well, it could be worse´"
　　As if in reply, a piercing, horrible moaning filled the room. It seemed to comefrom somewhere beneath them. Chewbacca let out a terrified yowl of his own andtried to flatten himself against a wall. Luke drew his own pistol and peered hard atvarious clumps of debris, but saw nothing.
　　"What was that?" Solo asked.
　　"I'm not too sure." Luke suddenly jumped, looking down and behind him."Something just moved past me, I think. Watch out-"
　　With shocking suddenness Luke disappeared straight down into the garbage.
　　"It's got Luke!" the Princess shouted. "It took him under!" Solo lookedaround frantically for something to shoot at.
　　As abruptly as he had vanished, Luke reappeared-and so did part of somethingelse. A thick whitish tentacle was wrapped tight around his throat.
　　"Shoot it, kill it!" Luke screamed.
　　"Shoot it! I can't even see it," Solo protested.
　　Once again Luke was sucked under by whatever that gruesome appendage wasattached to. Solo stared helplessly around the multicolored surface.
　　There was a distant rumble of heavy machinery, and two opposing walls of thechamber moved inward several centimeters. The rumble ceased and then it wasquiet again. Luke appeared unexpectedly close to Solo, scrabbling his way clear ofthe suffocating mess and rubbing at the welt on his neck.
　　"What happened to it?" Leia wondered, eyeing the quiescent garbage warily.
　　Luke looked genuinely puzzled. "I don't know. It had me-and then I wasfree. It just let me go and disappeared. Maybe I didn't smell bad enough for it."
　　"I've got a very bad feeling about this," Solo murmured.
　　Again the distant rumble filled the room; again the walls began their inwardmarch. Only this time neither sound nor movement showed any sign of stopping.
　　"Don't just stand there gaping at each other!" the Princess urged them. "Try tobrace them with something.
　　Even with the thick poles and old metal beams Chewbacca could handle, theywere unable to find anything capable of slowing the walls' advance. It seemed as ifthe stronger the object was that they placed against the walls, the easier it wassnapped. Luke pulled out his comlink, simultaneously trying to talk and will thewalls to retreat. "Threepio´come in, Threepio!" A decent paused produced noresponse, causing Luke to look worriedly at his companions.
　　"I don't know why he doesn't answer." He tried again. "See Threepio, comein. Do you read?"
　　"See Threepio," the muted voice continued to call, "come in, See Threepio." Itwas Luke's voice and it issued softly in between buzzings from the small handcomlink resting on the deserted computer console. Save for the intermittent pleading,the gantry office was silent.
　　A tremendous explosion drowned out the muffled pleadings. It blew the officedoor clean across the room, sending metal fragments flying in all directions. Severalof them struck the comlink, sending it flying to the floor and cutting off Luke's voicein midtransmission.
　　In the wake of the minor cataclysm four armed and ready troopers enteredthrough the blown portal. Initial study indicated the office was deserted-until adim, frightened voice was heard coming from one of the tall supply cabinets near theback of the room.
　　"Help, help! Let us out!"
　　Several of the troopers bent to inspect the immobile bodies of the gantry officerand his aide while others opened the noisy cabinet. Two robots, one tall andhumanoid, the other purely mechanical and three-legged, stepped out into the office.The taller one gave the impression of being half unbalanced with fear.
　　"They're madmen, I tell you, madmen!" He gestured urgently toward thedoorway. "I think they said something about heading for the prison level. Theyjust left. If you hurry, you might catch them. That way, that way!"
　　Two of the troopers inside joined those waiting in the hallway in hustling offdown the corridor. That left two guards to watch over the office. They totallyignored the robots as they discussed what might have taken place.
　　"All the excitement has overloaded the circuitry in my companion here,"Threepio explained carefully. "If you don't mind, I'd like to take him down toMaintenance."
　　"Hmmm?" One of the guards looked up indifferently and nodded to the robot.Threepio and Artoo hurried out the door without looking back. As they departed itoccurred to the guard that the taller of the two 'droids was of a type he had never seenbefore. He shrugged. That was not surprising on a station of this size.
　　"That was too close," Threepio muttered as they scurried down an emptycorridor. "Now we'll have to find another information-control console and plug youback in, or everything is lost."
　　The garbage chamber grew remorselessly smaller, the smoothly fitting metalwalls moving toward one another with stolid precision. Larger pieces of refuseperformed a concerto of snapping and popping that was rising toward a finalshuddering crescendo.
　　Chewbacca whined pitifully as he fought with all his incredible strength andweight to hold back one of the walls, looking like a hirsute Tantalus approaching hisfinal summit.
　　"One thing's for sure," Solo noted unhappily. "We're all going to be muchthinner. This could prove popular for slimming . The only trouble is itspermanence."
　　Luke paused for breath, shaking the innocent comlink angrily. "What couldhave happened to Threepio?"
　　"Try the hatch again," advised Leia. "It's our only hope."
　　Solo shielded his eyes and did so. The ineffectual blast echoed mockinglythrough the narrowing chamber.
　　The service bay was unoccupied, everyone apparently having been drawn awayby the commotion elsewhere. After a cautious survey of the room Threepiobeckoned for Artoo to follow. Together they commenced a hurried search of themany service panels. Artoo let out a beep, and Threepio rushed to him. He waitedimpatiently as the smaller unit plugged the receptive arm carefully into the opensocket.
　　A superfast flurry of electronics spewed in undisciplined fashion from the grid ofthe little 'droid. Threepio made cautioning motions.
　　"Wait a minute, slow down!" The sounds dropped to a crawl. "That's better.They're where? They what? Oh, no! They'll only come out of there as liquid!"
　　Less than a meter of life was left to the trapped occupants of the garbage room.Leia and Solo had been forced to turn sideways, had ended up facing each other. Forthe first time the haughtiness was gone from the Princess's face. Reaching out, shetook Solo's hand, clutching it convulsively as she felt the first touch of the closingwalls.
　　Luke had fallen and was lying on his side, fighting to keep his head above therising ooze. He nearly choked on a mouthful of compressed sludge when hiscomlink began buzzing for attention.
　　"Threepio!"
　　"Are you there, sir?" the 'droid replied. "We've had some minor problems.You would not believe-"
　　"Shut up, Threepio!" Luke screamed into the unit. "And shut down all therefuse units on the detention level or immediately below it. Do you copy? Shutdown the refuse-"
　　Moments later Threepio grabbed at his head in pain as a terrific screeching andyelling sounded over the comlink.
　　"No, shut them all down!" he implored Artoo. "Hurry! Oh, listen to them-they're dying, Artoo! I curse this metal body of mine. I was not fast enough. Itwas my fault. My poor master-all of them´no, no, no!"
　　the screaming and yelling, however, continued far beyond what seemed like areasonable interval. In fact, they were shouts of relief. The chamber walls hadreversed direction automatically with Artoo's shutdown and were moving apart again.
　　"Artoo, Threepio," Luke hollered into the comlink, "it's all right, we're all right!Do you read me? We're okay-you did just fine."
　　Brushing distastefully at the clinging slime, he made his way as rapidly aspossible toward the hatchcover. Bending, he scraped accumulated detritus away,noting the number thus revealing.
　　"Open the pressure-maintenance hatch on unit 366-117891."
　　"Yes, sir," came Threepio's acknowledgment.
　　They may have been the happiest words Luke had ever heard.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  