  

A New Hope
X

　　Lined with power cables and circuitry conduits that rose from the depths and vanishedinto the heavens, the service trench appeared to be hundreds of kilometers deep. Thenarrow catwalk running around one side looked like a starched thread glued on aglowing ocean. It was barely wide enough for one man to traverse. 
　　One man edged his way along that treacherous walkway now, his gaze intent onsomething ahead of him instead of the awesome metal abyss below. The clackingsounds of enormous switching devices resounded like captive leviathans in the vastopen space, tireless and never sleeping.
　　Two thick cables joined beneath an overlay panel. It was locked, but aftercareful inspection of sides, top and bottom, Ben Kenobi pressed the panel cover in aparticular fashion causing it to spring aside. A blinking computer terminal wasrevealed beneath.
　　With equal care he performed several adjustments to the terminal. His actionswere rewarded when several indicator lights on the board changed from red to blue.
　　Without warning, a secondary door close behind him opened. Hurriedlyreclosing the panel cover, the old man slipped deeper into the shadows. Adetachment of troopers had appeared in the portal, and the officer in charge moved towithin a couple of meters of the motionless, hidden figure.
　　"Secure this area until the alert has been cancelled."
　　As they began to disperse, Kenobi became one with the dark.
　　Chewbacca grunted and wheezed, and barely succeeded in forcing his thick torsothrough the hatchway opening with Luke's and Solo's help. That accomplished,Luke turned to take stock of their surroundings.
　　The hallway they had emerged into showed dust on the floor. It gave theimpression of not having been used since the station had been built. Probably it wasonly a repair access corridor. He had no idea where they were.
　　Something hit the wall behind them with a massive thunk, and Luke yelled foreveryone to watch out as a long, gelatinous limb worked its way through the hatchand flailed hopefully about in the open corridor. Solo aimed his pistol at it as Leiatried to slip past the half-paralyzed Chewbacca.
　　"Somebody get this big hairy walking carpet out of my way." Suddenly shenoticed what Solo was preparing to do. "No, wait! It'll be heard!"
　　Solo ignored her and fired at the hatchway. The burst of energy was rewardedwith a distant roar as an avalanche of weakened wall and beaming all but buried thecreature in the chamber beyond.
　　Magnified by the narrow corridor, the sounds continued to roll and echo for longminutes afterward. Luke shook his head in disgust, realizing that someone like Solowho spoke with the mouth of a gun might not always act sensibly. Until now he hadsort of looked up to the Corellian. But the senseless gesture of firing at the hatchwaybrought them, for the first time in Luke's mind, to the same level.
　　The Princess's actions were more surprising than Solo's however. "Listen," shebegan, staring up at him, "I don't know where you came from, but I'm grateful."Almost as an afterthought she glanced back at Luke, adding, "To both of you." Herattention turned back to Solo. "But from now on you do as I tell you."
　　Solo gaped at her. This time the smug smile wouldn't come. "Look, YourHoliness," he was finally able to stammer, "let's get something straight. I takeorders only from one person-me."
　　"It's a wonder you're still alive," she shot back smoothly. A quick look downthe corridor and she had started determinedly off in the other direction.
　　Solo looked at Luke, started to say something, then hesitated and simply shookhis head slowly. "No reward is worth this. I don't know if there's enough credit inthe universe to pay for putting up with her´Hey, slow down!"
　　Leia had started around a bend in the corridor, and they ran swiftly to catch upwith her.
　　The half dozen troops milling around the entrance to the power trench were moreinterested in discussing the peculiar disturbance in the detention block than in payingattention to their present boring duty. So engrossed were they in speculation as tothe cause of the trouble that they failed to notice the fey wraith behind them. Itmoved from shadow to shadow like a night-stalking ferret, freezing when one of thetroopers seemed to turn slightly in its direction, moving on again as if walking on air.
　　Several minutes later one of the troopers frowned inside his armor, turning towhere he thought he had sensed a movement near the opening to the main passageway.There was nothing but an undefinable something, which the ghost-like Kenobi hadleft behind. Acutely uncomfortable yet understandably unwilling to confess tohallucinations, the trooper turned back to the more prosaic conversation of his fellows. Someone finally discovered the two unconscious guards tied in the service lockerson board the captured freighter. Both men remained comatose despite all efforts torevive them.
　　Under the direction of several bickering officers, troopers carried their twoarmorless comrades down the ramp and toward the nearest hospital bay. On the waythey passed two forms hidden by a small opened service panel. Threepio and Artoowent unnoticed, despite their proximity to the hangar.
　　As soon as the troops had passed, Artoo finished removing a socket cover andhurriedly shoved his sensor arm into the opening. Lights commenced a wild flashingon his face and smoke started issuing from several seams in the small 'droid before afrantic Threepio could pull the arm free.
　　Immediately the smoke vanished, the undisciplined blinking faded to normalcy.Artoo emitted a few wilted beeps, successfully giving the impression of a human whohad expected a glass of mild wine and instead unwittingly downed several gulps ofsomething 180 proof.
　　"Well, next time watch where you stick your sensors," Threepio chastised hiscompanion. "You could have fried your insides." He eyed the socket. "That's apower outlet, stupid, not an information terminal."
　　Artoo whistled a mournful apology. Together they hunted for the proper outlet.
　　Luke, Solo, Chewbacca and the Princess reached the end of an empty hallway.It dead-ended before a large window, which overlooked a hangar, giving them asweeping, tantalizing view of the freighter just below.
　　Pulling out his comlink and looking around them with increasing nervousness,Luke spoke into the pickup. "See Threepio´do you copy?"
　　There was a threatening pause, then, "I read you, sir. We had to abandon theregion around the office."
　　"Are you both safe?"
　　"For the moment, though I'm not sanguine about my old age. We're in themain hangar, across from the ship."
　　Luke looked toward the bay window in surprise. "I can't see you across thebay-we must be right above you. Stand by. We'll join you as soon as we can."He clicked off, smiling suddenly at Threepio's reference to his "old age."Sometimes the tall 'droid was more human than people.
　　"Wonder if the old man was able to knock out the tractors." Solo was mutteringas he surveyed the scene below. A dozen or so troopers were moving in and out ofthe freighter.
　　"Getting back to the ship's going to be like flying through the five Fire Rings ofFornax." Leia Organa turned long enough to glance in surprise from the ship to Solo."You came here in that wreck? You're braver than I thought."
　　At once praised and insulted, Solo wasn't sure how to react. He settled forgiving her a dirty look as they started back down the hallway, Chewbacca bringing upthe rear.
　　Rounding a corner, the three humans came to an abrupt halt. So did the twentyImperial troopers marching toward them. Reacting naturally-which is to say,without thinking-Solo drew his pistol and charged the platoon, yelling and howlingin several languages at the top of his lungs.
　　Startled by the totally unexpected assault and wrongly assuming their attackerknew what he was doing, the troopers started to back away. Several wild shots fromthe Corellian's pistol initiated complete panic. Ranks and composure shattered, thetroopers broke and fled down the passage.
　　Drunk with his own prowess, Solo continued the chase, turning to shout back atLuke, "Get to the ship. I'll take care of these!"
　　"Are you out of your mind?" Luke yelled at him. "Where do you think you'regoing?"
　　But Solo had already rounded a far bend in the corridor and didn't hear. Notthat it would have made any difference.
　　Upset at his partner's disappearance, Chewbacca let out a thunderous if unsettledhowl and rushed down the hallway after him. That left Luke and Leia standing alonein the empty corridor.
　　"Maybe I was too hard on your friend," he confessed reluctantly. "He certainlyis courageous."
　　"He certainly is an idiot!" a furious Luke countered tightly. "I don't know whatgood it'll do us if he gets himself killed." Muted alarms suddenly sounded from thebay below and behind them.
　　"That's done it," Luke growled disgustedly. "Let's go." Together they startedoff in search of a way down to a hangar-deck level.
　　Solo continued his rout of all opposition, running at top speed down the longhallway, yelling and brandishing his pistol. Occasionally he got off a shot whoseeffect was more valuable psychologically than tactically.
　　Half the troops had already scattered down various subpassages and corridors.The ten troopers he continued to harry still raced headlong away from him, up againsta dead end, which forced them to turn and confront their opponents.
　　Seeing that the ten had halted, Solo likewise slowed. Gradually he came to acomplete stop. Corellian and Imperials regarded one another silently. Several ofthe troopers were staring, not at Han but past him.
　　It suddenly occurred to Solo that he was very much alone, and the same thoughtwas beginning to seep into the minds of the guards he was confronting.Embarrassment gave way rapidly to anger. Rifles and pistols started to come up.Solo took a step backward, fired one shot, then turned and ran like hell.
　　Chewbacca heard the whistle and crump of energy weapons firing as helumbered lightly down the corridor. There was something odd about them, though:they sounded as if they were coming closer instead of moving away.
　　He was debating what to do when Solo came tearing around a corner and nearlyran him down. Seeing ten troopers in pursuit, the Wookie decided to reserve hisquestion for a less confused moment. He turned and followed Solo back up thehallway.
　　Luke grabbed the Princess and pulled her back into a recess. She was about toretort angrily at his brusqueness when the sound of marching feet caused her to shrinkback into the darkness with him.
　　A squad of soldiers hurried past, responding to the alarms that continued to ringsteadily. Luke looked out at the retreating backs and tried to catch his breath. "Ouronly hope of reaching the ship is from the other side of the hangar. They alreadyknow someone's here." He started back down the corridor, motioning for her tofollow.
　　Two guards appeared at the far end of the passageway, paused, and pointeddirectly at them. Turning, Luke and Leia began running back the way they had come.A larger squad of troopers rounded the far bend and came racing toward them.
　　Blocking ahead and behind, they hunted frantically for another way out. ThenLeia spotted the cramped subhallway and gestured to it.
　　Luke fired at the nearest of their pursuers and joined her in running down thepassage. It looked like a minor service corridor. Behind them, pursuit soundeddeafeningly loud in the confining space. But at least it minimized the amount of firethe troops could concentrate on them.
　　A thick hatchway appeared ahead. The lighting beyond turned dimmer, raisingLuke's hopes. If they could lock the hatch even for a few moments and lostthemselves somewhere beyond, they might have a chance of shaking their immediatetormentors.
　　But the hatch stayed open, showing no inclination to close automatically. Lukewas about to let out a shout of triumph when the ground suddenly vanished ahead ofhim. His toes hanging over nothingness, he failed to regain his balance, succeedingjust in time to nearly go over the edge of the retracted catwalk anyway as the Princessplowed into him from behind.
　　The catwalk had been reduced to a stub protruding into empty air. A cool draftcaressed Luke's face as he studied walls that soared to unseen heights overhead andplunged to fathomless depths below. The service shaft was employed in circulatingand recycling the atmosphere of the station.
　　At the moment Luke was too frightened and concerned to be angry with thePrincess for his attention. A burst of energy exploded above their heads, sendingmetal slivers flying.
　　"I think we made a wrong turn," he murmured, firing back at the advancingtroops and illuminating the narrow corridor behind them with destruction.
　　An open hatchway showed on the other side of the chasm. It might as wellhave been a light-year away. Hunting along the rim of the doorway, Leia located aswitch and hit it quickly. The hatch door behind them slid shut with a resoundingboom. At least that cut off the fire from the rapidly nearing soldiers. It also left thetwo fugitives balanced precariously on a small section of catwalk barely a metersquare. If the remaining section were to unexpectedly withdraw into the wall, theywould see more of the battle station's interior than either wished.
　　Gesturing for the Princess to move aside as much as possible, Luke shielded hiseyes and aimed the pistol at the hatch controls. A brief burst of energy melted themflush with the wall, insuring that no one could open it easily from the other side.Then he turned his attention to the vast cavity blocking their path to the oppositeportal. It beckoned invitingly-a small yellow rectangle of freedom.
　　Only the soft rush of air from below sounded until Luke commented, "This is ashield-rated door, but it won't hold them back very long."
　　"We've got to get across there somehow," Leia agreed, once more examining themetal bordering the sealed doorway. "Find the controls for extending the bridge."
　　Some desperate searching produced nothing, while an ominous pounding andhissing sounded from behind the frozen door. A small spot of white appeared in thecenter of the metal, then began to spread and smoke.
　　"They're coming through!" Luke groaned.
　　The Princess turned carefully to stare across the gap. "This must be a single-unit bridge, with the controls only on the other side."
　　Reaching up to the point at the panel holding the unreachable controls, Luke'shand caught on something at his waist. A frustrated glance downward revealed thecause-and engendered a bit of practical insanity.
　　The cable coiled tightly in small loops was thin and fragile seeming, but it wasgeneral military-issue line and would have supported Chewbacca's weight easily. Itcertainly ought to hold Leia and himself. Pulling the cable free of the waist catch, hegauged its length, matching it against the width of the abyss. This should span thedistance with plenty to spare.
　　"What now?" the Princess inquired curiously.
　　Luke didn't reply. Instead, he removed a small but heavy power unit from theutility belt of his armor and tied one end of the cable around it. Making sure thewrapping was secure; he stepped as close to the edge of their uncertain perch as hedared.
　　Whirling the weighted end of the cord in increasing circles, he let it arc acrossthe gorge. It stuck an outcropping of cylindrical conduits on the other side and felldownward. With forced patience he pulled the loose line back in, then recoiled it foranother try.
　　Once again the weighted end orbited in ever greater circles, and again he flung itacross the gap. He could feel the rising heat behind him as he let it go, heat from themelting metal doorway.
　　This time the heavy end looped around an outcropping of pipes above, wrappeditself several times around, and slipped, battery end down, into a crack between them.Leaning backward, he tugged and pulled on the cable, pulling on it at the same time ashe tried to rest all his weight on it. The cable showed no sign of parting.
　　Wrapping the other end of the line several times around his waist and right arm,he reached out and pulled the Princess close to him with the other. The hatch doorbehind them was now a molten white, and liquid metal was running steadily from itsborders.
　　Something warm and pleasant touched Luke's lips, shock at the Princess, hismouth still tingling from the kiss.
　　"Just for luck," she murmured with a slight, almost embarrassed smile as she puther arms around him. "We're going to need it."
　　Gripping the thin cable as tightly as possible with his left hand, Luke put hisright over it, took a deep breath, and jumped out into air. If he had miscalculated thedegree of arc in their swing, they would miss the open hatch and slam into the metalwall to either side or below it. If that happened he doubted he could maintain hisgrip on the rope.
　　The heart-halting transit was accomplished in less time than that thought. In amoment Luke was on the other side, scrambling on his knees to make sure they didn'tfall back into the pit. Leia released her hold on him with admirable timing. Sherolled forward and into the open hatchway, climbing gracefully to her feet as Lukefought to untangle himself from the cable.
　　A distant whine became a loud hen a groan as the hatch door on the other sidegave way. It collapsed inward and tumbled into the depths. If it touched bottom,Luke didn't hear it.
　　A few bolts struck the wall nearby. Luke turned his own weapon on theunsuccessful troopers and returned the fire even as Leia was pulling him into thepassageway behind.
　　Once clear of the door he hit the activating switch. It shut tightly behind them.They would have several minutes, at least, without having to worry about being shotin the back. On the other hand, Luke didn't have the slightest idea where they were,and he found himself wondering what had happened to Han and Chewbacca.
　　Solo and his Wookie partner had succeeded in shaking a portion of their pusuers.But it seemed that whenever they slipped free of several soldiers, more appeared totake their place. No question about it: the word was out on them.
　　Ahead, a series of shield doors was beginning to close.
　　"Hurry, Chewie!" Solo urged.
　　Chewbacca grunted once, breathing like an overused engine. Despite hisimmense strength, the Wookie was not built for long-distance sprinting. Only hisenormous stride had enabled him to keep pace with the lithe Corellian. Chewbaccaleft a couple of hairs in one of the doors, but both slipped inside just before the fivelayers slammed shut.
　　"That ought to hold them for a while," Solo crowed with delight. The Wookiegrowled something at him, but his partner fairly fluoresced with confidence.
　　"Of course I can find the ship from here-Corellians can't get lost." Therecame another growl, slightly accusing this time. Solo shrugged. "Tocneppildoesn't count; he wasn't a Corellian. Besides, I was drunk."
　　Ben Kenobi ducked into the shadows of a narrow passageway, seeming tobecome part of the metal itself as a large cluster of troopers hurried past him.Pausing to make certain they had all passed, he checked the corridor ahead beforestarting down it. But he failed to see the dark silhouette, which eclipsed the light farbehind him.
　　Kenobi had avoided one patrol after another, slowly working his way backtoward the docking bay holding the freighter. Just another two turns and he shouldbe at the hangar. What he would do then would be determined by howinconspicuous his charges had been.
　　That young Luke, the adventurous Corellian and his partner, and the two robotshad been involved in something other than quiet napping he already suspected fromthe amount of activity he had observed while making his way back from the powertrench. Surely all those troops hadn't been out hunting just for him!
　　But something else was troubling them, judging from the reference he hadoverheard concerning a certain important prisoner, now escaped. That discovery hadpuzzled him, until he considered the restless nature of both Luke and Han Solo.Undoubtedly they were involved in some fashion.
　　Ben sensed something directly ahead and slowed cautiously. It had a mostfamiliar feel to it, a half-remembered metal odor he could not quite place.
　　Then the figure stepped out in front of him, blocking his entry to the hangar notfive meters away. The outline and size of the figure completed the momentarypuzzle. It was the maturity of the mind he had sensed that had temporarily confusedhim. His hand moved naturally to the hilt of his deactivated saber.
　　"I have been waiting a long time, Obi-wan Kenobi," Darth Vader intonedsolemnly. "We meet again at last. The circle has been completed." Kenobisensed satisfaction beneath the hideous mask. "The presence I sensed earlier couldonly have been you."
　　Kenobi regarded the great form blocking his retreat and nodded slowly. Hegave the impression of being more curious than impressed. "You still have much tolearn."
　　"You were once my teacher," Vader admitted, "and I learned much from you.But the time of learning has long passed, and I am the master now."
　　The logic that had constituted the missing link in his brilliant pupil remained asabsent as before. There would be no reasoning here, Kenobi knew. Igniting hissaber, he assumed the pose of warrior-ready, a movement accomplished with the easeand elegance of a dancer.
　　Rather roughly, Vader imitated the movement. Several minutes followedwithout motion as the two men remained staring at each other, as if waiting for someproper, as yet unspoken signal.
　　Kenobi blinked once, shook his head, and tried to clear his eyes, which hadbegun to water slightly. Sweat beaded up on his forehead, and his eyelids flutteredagain.
　　"You powers are weak," Vader noted emotionlessly. "Old man, you shouldnever have come back. It will make your end less peaceful than you might havewished."
　　"You sense only a part of the force, Darth," Kenobi murmured with the assuranceof one to whom death is merely another sensation, like sleeping or making love ortouching a candle. "As always, you perceive its reality as little as a utensil perceivesthe taste of food."
　　Executing a move of incredible swiftness for one so old, Kenobi lunged at themassive shape. Vader blocked the stab with equal speed, riposting with acounterslash that Kenobi barely parried. Another parry and Kenobi countered again,using this opportunity to move around the towering Dark Lord.
　　They continued to trade blows, with the old man now backing toward the hangar.Once, his saber and Vader's locked, the interaction of the two energy fields producinga violent sparking and flashing. A low buzzing sound rose from the straining powerunits as each saber sought to override the other.
　　Threepio peeked around the entrance to the docking bay, worriedly counting thenumber of troopers milling around the deserted freighter.
　　"Where could they be? Oh, oh."
　　He ducked back out of sight just as one of the guards glanced in his direction.A second, more cautious appraisal was more rewarding. It revealed Han Solo andChewbacca hugging the wall of another tunnel on the far side of the bay.
　　Solo also was nonplussed at the number of guards. He muttered, "Didn't wejust leave this party?"
　　Chewbacca grunted, and both turned, only to relax and lower their weapons atthe sight of Luke and the Princess.
　　"What kept you?" Solo quipped mirthlessly.
　　"We ran into," Leia explained, panting heavily, "some old friends."
　　Luke was staring at the freighter. "Is the ship all right?"
　　"Seems okay," was Solo's analysis. "It doesn't look like they've removedanything or disturbed her engines. The problem's going to be getting to it."
　　Leia suddenly pointed to one of the opposite tunnels. "Look!"
　　Illuminated by the flare from contacting energy fields, Ben Kenobi and DarthVader were backing toward the bay. The fight attracted the attention of others besidethe Senator. Every one of the guards moved in for a better view of the Olympianconflict.
　　"Now's our chance," Solo observed, starting forward.
　　All seven of the troopers guarding the ship broke and rushed toward thecombatants, going to the Dark Lord's aid. Threepio barely ducked aside as they ranpast him. Turning back into the alcove, he yelled to his companion.
　　"Unplug yourself, Artoo. We're leaving." As soon as the Artoo unit slippedhis sensor arm free of the socket, the two 'droids began to slowly edge out into theopen bay.
　　Kenobi heard the approaching commotion and spared a glance back into thehangar. The squad of troopers bearing down on him was enough to show that he wastrapped.
　　Vader took immediate advantage of the momentary distraction to bring his saberover and down. Kenobi somehow managed to deflect the sweeping blow, at onceparrying and turning a complete circle.
　　"You still have your skill, but your power fades. Prepare to meet the force,Obi-wan."
　　Kenobi gauged the shrinking distance between the oncoming troops and himself,then turned a pitying gaze on Vader. "This is a fight you cannot win, Darth. Yourpower has matured since I taught you, but I too have grown much since our parting.If my blade finds its mark, you will cease to exist. But if you cut me down, I willonly become more powerful. Heed my words."
　　"Your philosophies no longer confuse me, old man," Vader growledcontemptuously. "I am the master now."
　　Once again he lunged forward, feinting, and then slashing in a deadly downwardarc with the saber. It stuck home, cutting the old man cleanly in half. There was abrief flash as Kenobi's cloak fluttered to the deck in two neat sections.
　　But Ben Kenobi was not in it. Wary of some tricks, Vader poked at the emptycloak sections with the saber. There was no sign of the old man. He had vanishedas though he had ever existed.
　　The guards slowed their approach and joined Vader in examining the place whereKenobi had stood seconds before. Several of them muttered, and even the awesomepresence of the Sith Lord couldn't keep a few of them from feeling a little afraid.
　　Once the guards had turned and dashed for the far tunnels, Solo and the othersstarted for the starship shifted direction and was moving toward the guards.
　　"Ben!" he screamed, firing wildly toward the troops. Solo cursed, but turned tofire in support of Luke.
　　One of the energy bolts struck the safety release on the tunnel blast door. Theemergency hold broken, the heavy door fairly exploded downward. Both the guardsand Vader leaped clear-the guards into the bay and Vader backward, to the oppositeside of the door.
　　Solo had turned and started for the entrance to the ship, but he paused as he sawLuke running toward the guards.
　　"It's too late!" Leia yelled at him. "It's over."
　　A familiar, yet different voice rang in his ears-Ben's voice. "Luke´listen!"was all it said.
　　Bewildered, Luke turned to hunt for the source of that admonition. He onlysaw Leia beckoning to him as she followed Artoo and Threepio up the ramp.
　　"Come on! There's no time."
　　Hesitating, his mind still on that imagined voice (or was it imagined?), aconfused Luke took aim and felled several soldiers before he, too, whirled andretreated into the freighter.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  