  

A New Hope
XIII

　　A cheering, gleeful throng of technicians, mechanics, and other inhabitants of theAlliance headquarters swarmed around each fighter as it touched down and taxied intothe temple hangar. Several of the other surviving pilots had already vacated theirships and were waiting to greet Luke.
　　On the opposite side of the fighter, the crowd was far smaller and morerestrained. It consisted of a couple of technicians and one tall, humanoid 'droid whowatched worriedly as the humans mounted the scorched fighter and lifted a badlyburned metal hulk from its back.
　　"Oh, my! Artoo?" Threepio pleaded, bending close to the carbonized robot."Can you hear me? Say something." His unwinking gaze turned to one of thetechs. "You can repair him, can't you?"
　　"We'll do our best." The man studied the vaporized metal, the danglingcomponents. "He's taken a terrible beating."
　　"You must repair him! Sir, if any of my circuits or modules will help, I'llgladly donate them´"
　　they moved slowly away, oblivious to the noise and excitement around them.Between robots and the humans who repaired them there existed a very specialrelationship. Each partook a little of the other and sometimes the dividing linebetween man and machine was more blurred than many would admit.
　　The center of the carnival atmosphere was formed by three figures who battled tosee who could compliment the others the most. When it came to congratulatoryback-slapping, however, Chewbacca won by default. There was laughter as theWookie looked embarrassed at having nearly flattened Luke in his eagerness to greethim.
　　"I know you'd come back," Luke was shouting, "I just know it! I would'vebeen nothing but dust if you hadn't sailed in like that, Han!"
　　Solo had lost none of his smug self-assurance. "Well, I couldn't very well let aflying farm boy go up against that station all by himself. Besides, I was beginning torealize what could happen, and I felt terrible about it, Luke-leaving you to maybetake all the credit and get all the reward."
　　As they laughed, a little figure, robes flowing rushed up to Luke in a veryunsenatorial fashion. "You did it, Luke, you did it!" Leia was shouting.
　　She fell into his arms and hugged him as he spun her around. Then she movedto Solo and repeated the embrace. Expectantly, the Corellian was not quite asembarrassed.
　　Suddenly awed by the adulation of the crowd, Luke turned away. He gave thetired fighter a look of approval, then found his gaze traveling upward, up to theceiling high overhead. For a second he thought he heard something faintly like agratified sigh, a relaxing of muscles a crazy old man had once performed in momentsof pleasure. Of course, it was probably the intruding hot wind of a steaming jungleworld, but Luke smiled anyway at what he thought he saw up here.
　　There were many rooms in the vast expanse of the temple, which had beenconverted for modern service by the technicians of the Alliance. Even in theirdesperate need, however, there was something too clean and classically beautifulabout the ruins of the ancient throne room for the architects to modify. They had leftit as it was, save for scouring it clear of creeping jungle growth and debris.
　　For the first time in thousands of years that spacious chamber was full.Hundreds of rebel troops and technicians stood assembled on the old stone floor,gathered together for one last time before dispersing to new posts and distant homes.For the first time ever the massed ranks of pressed uniforms and polished semi-armorstood arrayed together in a fitting show of Alliance might.
　　The banners of the many worlds which had lent support to the rebellion flutteredin the gentle breeze formed inside. At the far end of a long open aisle stood a visiongowned in formal white, barred with chalcedony waves-Leia Organa's signet ofoffice.
　　Several figures appeared at the far end of the aisle. One, massive and hirsute,showed signs of running for cover, but was urged on down the open row by hiscompanion. It took several minutes for Luke, Han, Chewie, and Threepio to coverthe distance to the other end.
　　They stopped before Leia, and Luke recognized General Dodonna among theother dignitaries seated nearby. There was a pause and a gleaming, familiar Artoounit joined the group, moving to stand next to a thoroughly awestruck Threepio.
　　Chewbacca shuffled nervously, giving every indication of wishing he weresomeplace else. Solo silenced him as Leia rose and came forward. At the sametime banners tilted in unison and all those gathered in the great hall turned to face thedais.
　　She place something heavy and golden around Solo's neck, then Chewbacca's-having to strain to do so-and finally around Luke's. Then she made a signal to thecrowd, and the rigid discipline dissolved as every man, woman, and mechanicalpresent was permitted to give full vent to their feelings.
　　As he stood awash in the cheers and shouts, Luke found that his mind wasneither on his possible future with the Alliance nor on the chance of travelingadventurously with Han Solo and Chewbacca. Instead, unlikely as Solo had claimedit might be, he found his full attention occupied by the radiant Leia Organa.
　　She noticed his unabashed stare, but this time she only smiled.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  