  

The Empire Strikes Back
I

　　"Now this is what I call cold!" Luke Skywalker's voice broke the silence he hadobserved since leaving the newly established Rebel base hours earlier. He wasastride a Tauntaun, the only other living being as far as the eye could see. He felttired and alone, and the sound of his own voice startled him.
　　Luke as well as his fellow members of the Rebel Alliance took turns exploringthe white wastelands of Hoth, gathering information about their new home. They allreturned to base with mixed feelings of comfort and loneliness. There was nothingto contradict their earliest findings that no intelligent lifeforms existed on this coldplanet. All that Luke had seen on his solitary expeditions were barren white plainsand ranges of blue-tinged mountains that seemed to vanish in the mists of the distanthorizons.
　　Luke smiled behind the masklike gray bandana that protected him against Hoth'sfrigid winds. Peering out at the icy wastes through his goggles, he pulled hisfur-lined cap down more snugly about his head.
　　One corner of his mouth curled upward as he tried to visualize the officialresearchers in the service of the Imperial government. "The galaxy is peppered withsettlements of colonizers who care little about the affairs of the Empire or itsopposition, the Rebel Alliance," he thought. "But a settler would have to be crazy tostake his claims on Hoth. This planet doesn't have a thing to offer anyone exceptus."
　　The Rebel Alliance had established an outpost on the ice world little more than amonth before. Luke was well-known on the base and, although barely twenty-threeyears old, he was addressed as Commander Skywalker by other Rebel warriors. Thetitle made him feel a bit uncomfortable. Nonetheless, he was already in the positionof giving orders to a band of seasoned soldiers. So much had happened to Luke andhe had changed a great deal. Luke, himself, found it hard to believe that only threeyears ago he was a wide-eyed farm boy on his home world of Tatooine.
　　The youthful commander spurred his Tauntaun. "Come on, girl," he urged.
　　The snow-lizard's gray body was insulated from the cold by a covering of thickfur. It galloped on muscular hind legs, its tridact1 feet terminating in large hookedclaws that dug up great plumes of snow. The Tauntaun's 1lamalike head thrustforward and its serpentine tail coiled out behind as the beast ran up the ice slope.The animal's horned head turned from side to side buffeting the winds that assaulted itshaggy muzzle.
　　Luke wished his mission were finished. His body felt nearly frozen in spite ofhis heavily padded Rebel-issue clothing. But he knew that it was his choice to bethere; he had volunteered to ride across the ice fields looking for other lifeforms. Heshivered as he looked at the long shadow he and the beast cast on the snow. "Thewinds are picking up," he thought. "And these chilling winds bring unendurabletemperatures to the plains after nightfall." He was tempted to return to the base alittle early, but he knew the importance of establishing the certainty that the Rebelswere alone on Hoth.
　　The Tauntaun quickly turned to the right, almost throwing Luke off-balance.He was still getting used to riding the unpredictable creatures. "No offense," he saidto his mount, "but I'd feel a lot more at ease in the cockpit of my old reliablelandspeeder." But for this mission, a Tauntaun-despite its disadvantages-was themost efficient and practical form of transportation available on Hoth.
　　When the beast reached the top of another ice slope, Luke brought the animal tohalt. He pulled off his dark-lensed goggles and squinted for a few moments, justlong enough for his eyes to adjust to the blinding glare of the snow.
　　Suddenly his attention was diverted by the appearance of an object streakingacross the sky, leaving behind a lingering trail of smoke as it dipped toward the mistyhorizon. Luke flashed his gloved hand to his utility belt and clutched his pair ofelectrobinoculars. Apprehensive, he felt a chill that competed with the coldness ofthe Hoth atmosphere. What he had seen could have been manmade, perhaps evensomething launched by the Empire. The young commander, still focused on theobject, followed its fiery course and watched intently as it crashed on the whiteground and was consumed in its own explosive brilliance.
　　At the sound of the explosion, Luke's Tauntaun shuddered. A fearful growlescaped its muzzle and it began to claw nervously at the snow. Luke patted theanimal's head, trying to reassure the beast. He found it difficult to hear himself overthe blustering wind. "Easy, girl, it's just another meteorite!" he shouted. Theanimal calmed and Luke brought the communicator to his mouth. "Echo Three toEcho Seven. Han ol' buddy, do you read me?"
　　Static crackled from the receiver. Then a familiar voice cut through theinterference. "Is that you, kid? What's up?"
　　The voice sounded a little older and somewhat sharper than Luke's. For amoment Luke fondly recalled first meeting the Corellian space smuggler in that dark,alien-packed cantina at a spaceport on Tatooine. And now he was one of Luke'sonly friends who was not an official member of the Rebel Alliance.
　　"I've finished my circle and I haven't picked up any life readings," Luke spokeinto his comlink, pressing his mouth close to the transmitter.
　　"There isn't enough life on this ice cube to fill a space cruiser," Han answered,fighting to make his voice heard above the whistling winds. "My sentry markers areplaced. I'm heading back to base."
　　"See you shortly," Luke replied. He still had his eye on the twisting column ofdark smoke rising from a black spot in the distance. "A meteorite just hit the groundnear here and I want to check it out. I won't be long."
　　Clicking off his comlink, Luke turned his attention to his Tauntaun. Thereptilian creature was pacing, shifting its weight from one foot to the other. It gaveout a deep-throated roar that seemed to signal fear.
　　"Whoa, girl!" he said, patting the Tauntaun's head. "What's the matter´yousmell something? There's nothing out there."
　　But Luke, too, was beginning to feel uneasy, for the first time since he had setout from the hidden Rebel base. If he knew anything about these snow-lizards, itwas that their senses were keen. Without question the animal was trying to tell Lukethat something, some danger, was near.
　　Not wasting a moment, Luke removed a small object from his utility belt andadjusted its miniature controls. The device was sensitive enough to zero in on eventhe most minute life readings by detecting body temperature and internal life systems.But as Luke began to scan the readings, he realized there was no need-or time-tocontinue.
　　A shadow crossed over him, towering above by a good meter and a half. Lukespun around and suddenly it seemed as if the terrain itself had come to life. A greatwhite-furred bulk, perfectly camouflaged against the sprawling mounds of snow,rushed savagely at him.
　　"Son of a jumpin'´"
　　Luke's hand blaster never cleared its holster. The huge claw of the Wampa IceCreature struck him hard and flat against his face, knocking him off the Tauntaun andinto the freezing snow.
　　Unconsciousness came swiftly to Luke, so swiftly that he never even heard thepitiful screams of the Tauntaun nor the abrupt silence following the sound of asnapping neck. And he never felt his own ankle savagely gripped by his giant, hairyattacker, or felt his body dragged like a lifeless doll across the snow-covered plain.
　　Black smoke was still rising from the depression in the hillside where theair-borne thing had fallen. The smoky clouds had thinned considerably since theobject had crashed to the ground and formed a smoldering crater, the dark fumesbeing dispersed over the plains by the icy Hoth winds.
　　Something stirred within the crater.
　　First there was only a sound, a droning mechanical sound swelling in intensity asif to compete with the howling wind. Then the thing moved-something that glintedin the bright afternoon light as it slowly began to ride from the crater.
　　The object appeared to be some form of alien organic life, its head a multiorbed,skull-like horror, its dark-lensed blister eyes training their cold gaze across the evencolder reaches of wilderness. But as the thing rose higher from the crater, its formshowed it clearly to be a machine of some sort, a circular head, and equipped withcameras, sensors, and metal appendages, some of which terminated in crablikegrasping pincers.
　　The machine hovered over the smoking crater and extended its appendages invarious directions. Then a signal was set off within its internal mechanical systems,and the machine began to float across the icy plain.
　　The dark probe droid soon vanished over the distant horizon.
　　Another rider, bundled in winter clothing and mounted on a spotted grayTauntaun, raced across the slopes of Hoth toward the Rebel base of operations.
　　The man's eyes, like points of cold metal, glanced without interest at the domesof dull gray, the myriad gun turrets and the colossal power generators that were theonly indications of civilized life on this world. Han Solo gradually slowed hissnow-lizard, guiding the reins so the creature trotted through the entrance of theenormous ice cave.
　　Han welcomed the relative warmth of the vast complex of caverns, warmed byRebel heating units that obtained their power from the huge generators outside. Thissubterranean base was both a natural ice cave and a maze of angular tunnels blastedfrom a solid mountain of ice by Rebel lasers. The Corellian had been in moredesolate hell-holes in the galaxy, but for the moment he couldn't remember the exactlocation of any one of them.
　　He dismounted his Tauntaun, then glanced around to watch the activity takingplace inside the mammoth cave. Wherever he looked he saw things being carried,assembled, or repaired. Rebels in gray uniforms rushed to unload supplies andadjust equipment. And there were robots, mostly R2 units and power droids, thatseemed to be everywhere, rolling or walking through the ice corridors, efficientlyperforming their innumerable tasks.
　　Han was beginning to wonder if he were mellowing with age. At first he hadhad no personal interest in or loyalty to this whole Rebel affair. His ultimateinvolvement in the conflict between Empire and Rebel Alliance began as a merebusiness transaction, selling his services and use of his ship, the Millennium Falcon.The job had seemed simple enough: Just pilot Ben Kenobi, plus young Luke andtwo droids, to the Alderaan system. How could Han have known at the time that hewould also be called on to rescue a princess from the Empire's most feared battlestation, the Death Star?
　　Princess Leia Organa´
　　The more Solo thought about her, the more he realized how much trouble heeventually bought himself by accepting Ben Kenobi's money. All Han had wantedoriginally was to collect his fee and rocket off to pay back some bad debts that hungover his head like a meteor ready to fall. Never had he intended to become a hero.
　　And yet, something had kept him around to join Luke and his crazy Rebelfriends as they launched the now-legendary space attack on the Death Star.Something. For the present, Han couldn't decide just what that something was.
　　Now, long after the Death Star's destruction, Han was still with the RebelAlliance, lending his assistance to establish this base on Hoth, probably the bleakestof all planets in the galaxy. But all that was about to change, he told himself. Asfar as he was concerned, Han Solo and the Rebels were about to blast off on divergentcourses.
　　He walked rapidly through the underground hangar deck where several Rebelfighter ship were docked and being serviced by men in gray assisted by droids ofvarious designs. Of greatest concern to Han was the saucer-shaped freighter shipresting on its newly installed landing pods. This, the largest ship in the hangar, hadgarnered a few new dents in its metal hull since Han first hooked up with Skywalkerand Kenobi. Yet the Millennium Falcon was famous not for its outward appearancebut for its speed: This freighter was still fastest ship ever to make the Kessel Run orto outrun an Imperial TIE fighter.
　　Much of the Falcon's success could be attributed to its maintenance, nowentrusted to the shaggy hands of a two-meter-tall mountain of brown hair, whose facewas at the moment hidden behind a welder's mask.
　　Chewbacca, Han Solo's giant Wookiee copilot, was repairing the MillenniumFalcon's central lifter when he noticed Solo approaching. The Wookiee stopped hiswork and raised his face shield, exposing his furry countenance. A growl that fewnon-Wookiees in the universe could translate roared from his toothy mouth.
　　Han Solo was one of those few. "Cold isn't the word for it, Chewie," theCorellian replied. "I'll take a good fight any day over all this hiding and freezing!"He noticed the smoky wisps rising from the newly welded section of metal. "Howare you coming with those lifters?"
　　Chewbacca replied with a typical Wookiee grumble.
　　"All right," Han said, fully agreeing with his friend's desire to return to space, tosome other planet-anywhere but Hoth. "I'll go to report. Then I'll give you ahand. Soon as those lifters are fixed, we're out of here."
　　The Wookiee barked, a joyful chuckle, and returned to his work as Hancontinued through the artificial ice cavern.
　　The command center was alive with electronic equipment and monitoringdevices reaching toward the icy ceiling. As in the hangar, Rebel personnel filled thecommand center. The room was full of controller, troopers, maintenancemen-along with droid of varying models and sizes, all of whom were diligentlyinvolved in converting the chamber into a workable base to replace the one on Yavin.
　　The man Han Solo had come to see was busily engaged behind a great console,his attention riveted to a computer screen flashing brilliantly colored readouts.Rieekan, wearing the uniform of a Rebel general, straightened his tall frame to faceSolo as he approached,
　　"General, there isn't a hint of life in the area," Han reported. "But all theperimeter markings are set, so you'll know if anyone comes calling."
　　As usual, General Rieekan did not smile at Solo's flippancy. But he admiredthe young man's taking a kind of unofficial membership in the Rebellion. Soimpressed was Rieekan by Solo's qualities that he often considered giving him anhonorary officer's commission.
　　"Has Commander Skywalker reported in yet?" the general inquired.
　　"He's checking out a meteorite that hit near him," Han answered. "He'll be insoon."
　　Rieekan quickly glanced at a newly installed radar screen and studied theflashing images. "With all the meteor activity in this system, it's going to bedifficult to spot approaching ships."
　　"General, I´" Han hesitated. "I think it's time for me to move on."
　　Han's attention was drawn from General Rieekan to a steadily approachingfigure. Her walk was both graceful and determined, and somehow the youngwoman's feminine features seemed incongruous with her white combat uniform.Even at this distance, Han could tell Princess Leia was upset.
　　"You're good in a fight," the general remarked to Han, adding, "I hate to loseyou."
　　"Thank you, General. But there's a price on my head. If I don't pay off Jabbathe Hut, I'm a walking dead man."
　　"A death mark is not an easy thing to live with-" the officer began as Hanturned to Princess Leia. Solo was not a sentimental sort, but he was aware that hewas very emotional now. "I guess this is it, Your Highness." He paused, notknowing what response to expect from the princess.
　　"That's right," Leia replied coldly. Her sudden aloofness was quickly evolvinginto genuine anger.
　　Han shook his head. Long ago he had told himself that females-mammalian,reptilian, or some biological class yet to be discovered-were beyond his meagerpowers of comprehension. Better leave them to mystery, he'd often advised himself.
　　But for a while, at least, Han had begun to believe that there was at least onefemale in all the cosmos that he was beginning to understand. And yet, he had beenwrong before.
　　"Well," Han said, "don't go all mushy on me. So long, Princess."
　　Abruptly turning his back to her, Han strode into the quiet corridor thatconnected with the command center. His destination was the hangar deck, where agiant Wookiee and a smuggler's freighter-two realities he did understand-werewaiting for him. He was not about to stop walking.
　　"Han!" Leia was rushing after him, slightly out of breath.
　　Coolly, he stopped and turned toward her. "Yes, Your Highness?"
　　"I thought you had decided to stay."
　　There seemed to be real concern in Leia's voice, but Han could not be certain.
　　"That bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind."
　　"Does Luke know?" she asked.
　　"He'll know when he gets back," Han replied gruffly.
　　Princess Leia's eyes narrowed, her gaze judging him with a look he knew well.For a moment Han felt like one of the icicles on the surface of the planet.
　　"Don't give me that look," he said sternly. "Every day more bounty hunters aresearching for me. I'm going to pay off Jabba before he sends any more of hisremotes, Gank killers, and who know what else. I've got to get this price off myhead while I still have a head."
　　Leia was obviously affected by his words, and Han could see that she wasconcerned for him as well as, perhaps, feeling something more.
　　"But we still need you," she said.
　　"We?" he asked.
　　"Yes."
　　"What about you?" Han was careful to emphasize the last word, but really wasn'tcertain why. Maybe it was something he had for some time wanted to say but hadlacked the courage-no, he amended, the stupidity-to expose his feelings. At themoment there seemed to be little to lose, and he was ready for whatever she mightsay.
　　"Me?" she said bluntly. "I don't know what you mean."
　　Incredulous, Han Solo shook his head. "No, you probably don't."
　　"And what precisely am I supposed to know?" Anger was growing in her voiceagain, probably because, Han thought, she was finally beginning to understand.
　　He smiled. "You want me to stay because of the way you feel about me."
　　Again the princess mellowed. "Well, yes, you've been a great help," she said,pausing before going on, "´to us. You're a natural leader-"
　　But Han refused to let her finish, cutting her off in midsentence. "No, yourworship. That's not it."
　　Suddenly Leia was staring directly into Han's face with eyes that were, at last,fully understanding. She started to laugh. "You're imagining things."
　　"Am I? I think you were afraid I was going to leave you without even a ´"Han's eyes focused on her lips, "´kiss."
　　She began to laugh harder now. "I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee."
　　"I can arrange that." He moved closer to her, and she looked radiant even in thecold light of the ice chamber. "Believe me, you could use a good kiss. You'vebeen so busy giving orders, you've forgotten how to be a woman. If you'd have letgo for a moment, I could have helped you. But it's too late now, sweetheart. Yourbig opportunity is flying out of here."
　　"I think I can survive," she said, obviously irked.
　　"Good luck!"
　　"You don't even care if the-"
　　He knew what she was going to say and didn't let her finish. "Spare me,please!" he interrupted. "Don't tell me about the Rebellion again. It's all you thinkabout. You're as cold as this planet."
　　"And you think you're the one to apply some heat?"
　　"Sure, if I were interested. But I don't think it'd be much fun." With that,Han stepped back and looked at her again, appraising her coolly. "We'll meetagain," he said. "Maybe by then you'll have warmed up a little." Her expressionhad changed again. Han had seen killers with kinder eyes.
　　"You have all the breeding of a Bantha," she snarled, "but not as much class.Enjoy your trip, hot shot!" Princess Leia quickly turned away from Han and hurrieddown the corridor.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  