  

The Empire Strikes Back
II

　　The temperature on the surface of Hoth had dropped. But despite the frigid air,the Imperial Probe Droid continued its leisurely drift above the snow-swept fields andhills, its extended sensors still reaching in all directions for life signs.
　　The robot's heat sensors suddenly reacted. It had found a heat source in thevicinity, and warmth was a good indication of life. The head swiveled on its axis,the sensitive eyelike blisters noting the direction from which the heat sourceoriginated. Automatically the probe robot adjusted its speed and began to move atmaximum velocity over the icy fields.
　　The insectlike machine slowed only when it neared a mound of snow bigger thanthe probe droid itself. The robot's scanners made note of the mound's size-nearlyone-point-eight meters in height and an enormous six meters long. But the mound'ssize was of only secondary importance. What was truly astounding, if a surveillancemachine could ever be astounded, was the amount of heat radiating from beneath themound. The creature under that snowy hill must surely be well protected against thecold.
　　A thin blue-white beam of light shot from one of the probe robot's appendages,its intense heat boring into the white mound and scattering gleaming snow flecks inall directions.
　　The mound began to shiver, then to quake. Whatever existed beneath it wasdeeply irritated by the robot's probing laser beam. Snow began to fall away from themound in sizable clumps when, at one end, two eyes showed through the mass ofwhite.
　　Huge yellow eyes peered like twin points of fire at the mechanical creature thatcontinued to blast away with its painful beams. The eyes burned with primevalhatred for the thing that had interrupted its slumber.
　　The mound shook again, with a roar that nearly destroyed the probe droid'sauditory sensors. It zoomed back several meters, widening the space between it andthe creature. The droid had never before encountered a Wampa Ice Creature; itscomputers advised that the beast be dealt with expeditiously.
　　The droid made an internal adjustment to regulate the potency of its laser beam.Less than a moment later the beam was at maximum intensity. The machine aimedthe laser at the creature, enveloping it in a great flaming and smoking cloud.Seconds later the few remaining particles of the Wampa were swept away by the icywinds.
　　The smoke disappeared, leaving behind no physical evidence-save for a largedepression in the snow-that an Ice Creature had ever been there.
　　But its existence had been properly recorded in the memory of the probe droid,which was already continued on its programmed mission.
　　The roars of another Wampa Ice Creature finally awakened the battered youngRebel commander. Luke's head was spinning, aching, perhaps exploding for all hecould tell. With painstaking effort he brought his vision into focus, discerning thathe was in an ice gorge, its jagged walls reflecting the fading twilight.
　　He suddenly realized he was hanging upside down, arms dangling and fingertipssome thirty centimeters from the snowy floor. His ankles were numb. He cranedhis neck and saw that his feet were frozen in ice hanging from the ceiling and that theice was forming on his legs like stalactites. He could feel the frozen mask of hisown blood caked on his face where the Wampa Ice Creature had viciously slashedhim.
　　Again Luke heard the bestial moans, louder now as they resounded through thedeep and narrow passageway of ice. The roars of the monster were deafening. Hewondered which would kill him first, the cold or the fangs and claws of the thing thatinhabited the gorge.
　　I've got to free myself, he thought, get free of this ice. His strength had not yetreturned fully, but with a determined effort, he pulled himself up and reached for theconfining bonds. Still too weak, Luke could not break the ice and fell back into hishanging position, the white floor rushing up at him.
　　"Relax," he said to himself. "Relax."
　　The ice walls creaked with the ever-louder bellows of the approaching creature.Its feet crunched on the frigid ground, coming frightening nearer. It would not belong before the shaggy white horror would be back and possibly warming the coldyoung warrior in the darkness of its belly.
　　Luke's eyes darted about the gorge, finally spotting the pile of gear he hadbrought with him on his mission, now lying in a useless, crumpled heap on the floor.The equipment was nearly a full, unattainable meter beyond his grasp. And with thatgear was a device that entirely captured his attention-a stout handgrip unit with apair of small switches and a surmounting metal disk. The object had once belongedto his father, a former Jedi Knight who had been betrayed and murdered by the youngDarth Vader. But now it was Luke's, given him by Ben Kenobi to be wielded withhonor against Imperial tyranny.
　　In desperation Luke tried twisting his aching body, just enough to reach thediscarded lightsaber. But the freezing cold coursing through his body slowed himdown and weakened him. Luke was beginning to resign himself to his fate as heheard the snarling Wampa Ice Creature approaching. His last feelings of hope werenearly gone when he sensed the presence.
　　But it was not the presence of the white giant that dominated this gorge.
　　Rather, it was that soothing spiritual presence which occasionally visited Luke inmoments of stress or danger. The presence that had first come to him only after oldBen, once again in his Jedi role of Obi-wan Kenobi, vanished into a crumple of hisown dark robes after being cut down by Darth Vader's lightsaber. The presence thatwas sometimes like a familiar voice, an almost silent whisper that spoke directly toLuke's mind.
　　"Luke." The whisper was there again, hauntingly. "Think of the lightsaber inyour hand."
　　The words made Luke's already aching head throb. Then he felt a suddenresurgence of strength, a feeling of confidence that urged him to continue fightingdespite his apparently hopeless situation. His eyes fixed upon the lightsaber. Hishand reached out painfully, the freezing in his limbs already taking its toll. Hesqueezed his eyes shut in concentration. But the weapon was still beyond his reach.He knew that the lightsaber would require more than just struggling to reach.
　　"Gotta relax," Luke told himself, "relax´" his disembodied guardian. "Let theForce flow, Luke."
　　The Force!
　　Luke saw the inverted gorillalike image of the Wampa Ice Creature looming, itsraised arms ending in enormous gleaming claws. He could see the apish face for thefirst time now, and shivered at the sight of the beast's ramlike horns, the quiveringlower jaw with its protruding fangs.
　　But then the warrior divorced the creature from his thoughts. He stoppedstruggling for his weapon, his body relaxed and went limp, allowing his spirit to bereceptive to his teacher's suggestion. Already he could feel coursing through himthat energy field generated by all living beings, that bound the very universe together.
　　As Kenobi had taught him, the Force was within Luke to use as he saw fit.
　　The Wampa Ice Creature spread its black, hooked claws and lumbered towardthe hanging youth. Suddenly the lightsaber, as if by magic, sprang to Luke's hand.Instantly, he depressed a colored button on the weapon, releasing a blade-like beamthat quickly severed his icy bonds.
　　As Luke, weapon in hand, dropped to the floor, the monstrous figure toweringover him took a cautious step backward. The beast's sulfurous eyes blinkedincredulously at the humming lightshaft, a sight baffling to its primitive brain.
　　Though it was difficult to move, Luke jumped to his feet and waved hislightsaber at the snow-white mass of muscle and hair, forcing it back a step, anotherstep. Brining the weapon down, Luke cut through the monster's hide with the bladeof light. The Wampa Ice Creature shrieked, its hideous roar of agony shaking thegorge walls. It turned and hastily lumbered out of the gorge, its white bulk blendingwith the distant terrain.
　　The sky was already noticeably darker, and with the encroaching darkness camethe colder winds. The Force was with Luke, but even that mysterious power couldnot warm him now. Every step he took as he stumbled out of the gorge was moredifficult than the last. Finally, his vision dimming as rapidly as the daylight, Lukestumbled down an embankment of snow and was unconscious before he even reachedthe bottom.
　　In the subsurface main hangar dock, Chewie was getting the Millennium Falconready for takeoff. He looked up from his work to see a rather curious pair of figuresthat had just appeared from around a nearby corner to mingle with the usual Rebelactivity in the hangar.
　　Neither of these figures was human, although one of them had a humanoid shapeand gave the impression of a man in knightly golden armor. His movement wereprecise, almost too precise to be human, as he clanked stiffly through the corridor.His companion required no manlike legs for locomotion, for he was doing quite wellrolling his shorter, barrellike body along on miniature wheels.
　　The shorter of the two droids was beeping and whistling excitedly.
　　"It's not my fault, you malfunctioning tin can," the tall, anthropomorphic droidstated, gesturing with a metallic hand. "I did not ask you to turn on the thermalheater. I merely commented that it was freezing in her chamber. But it's supposedto be freezing. How are we going to get all her things dried out? ´Ah! Here weare."
　　See-Threepio, the golden droid in human shape, paused to focus his opticalsensors on the docked Millennium Falcon.
　　The other robot, Artoo-Detoo, retracted his wheels and frontal leg, and rested hisstout metal body on the ground. The smaller droid's sensors were reading thefamiliar figures of Han Solo and his Wookiee companion as those two continued thework of replacing the freighter's central lifters.
　　"Master Solo, sir," Threepio called, the only one of the robotic twosomeequipped with an imitation human voice. "Might I have a word with you?"
　　Han was not particularly in a mood to be disturbed, especially by this fastidiousdroid. "What is it?"
　　"Mistress Leia has been trying to reach you on the communicator," Threepioinformed him. "It must be malfunctioning."
　　But Han knew that it was not. "I shut it off," he said sharply as he continued towork on his ship. "What does her royal holiness want?"
　　Threepio's auditory sensors identified the disdain in Han's voice but did notunderstand it. The robot mimicked a human gesture as he added, "She is looking forMaster Luke and assumed he would be here with you. No one seems to know-"
　　"Luke's not back yet?" Immediately Han became concerned. He could seethat the sky beyond the ice cavern entrance had grown considerably darker since heand Chewbacca had begun to repair the Millennium Falcon. Han knew just howseverely the temperatures dropped on the surface after nightfall and how deadly thewinds could be.
　　In a flash he jumped off the Falcon's lift, not even looking back toward theWookiee. "Bolt it down, Chewie. Officer of the Deck!" Han yelled, then broughthis comlink to his mouth and asked, "Security Control, has Commander Skywalkerreported in yet?" A negative reply brought a scowl to Han's face.
　　The deck sergeant and his aide hurried up to Solo in response to his summons.
　　"Is Commander Skywalker back yet?" Han asked, tension in his voice.
　　"I haven't seen him," the deck sergeant replied. "It's possible he came inthrough the south entrance."
　　"Check on it!" Solo snapped, though he was not in an official position to givecommands. "It's urgent."
　　As the deck sergeant and his aide turned and rushed down the corridor, Artooemitted a concerned whistle that rose inquiringly in pitch.
　　"I don't know, Artoo," Threepio answered, stiffly turning his upper torso andhead in Han's direction. "Sir, might I inquire what's going on?"
　　Anger welled up inside Han as he grunted back at the robot, "Go tell yourprecious princess that Luke is dead unless he shows up soon."
　　Artoo began to whistle hysterically at Solo's grim prediction and hisnow-frightened golden partner exclaimed, "Oh, no!"
　　The main tunnel was filled with activity when Han Solo rushed in. he saw apair of Rebel troopers employing all their physical strength to restrain a nervousTauntaun that was trying to break free.
　　From the opposite end, the deck officer rushed into the corridor, his eyes dartingaround the chamber until he had spotted Han. "Sir," he said frantically,"Commander Skywalker hasn't come through the south entrance. He might haveforgotten to check in."
　　"Not likely," Han snapped. "Are the speeders ready?"
　　"Not yet," the deck officer answered. "Adapting them to the cold is provingdifficult. Maybe by morning-"
　　Han cut him off. There wasn't any time to waste on machines that could andprobably would break down. "We'll have to go out on Tauntauns. I'll take sectorfour."
　　"The temperature is falling too rapidly."
　　"You bet it is," Han growled, "and Luke's out in it."
　　The other officer volunteered, "I'll cover sector twelve. Have control set screenalpha."
　　But Han knew there was no time for control to get its surveillance camerasoperating, not with Luke probably dying somewhere on the desolate plains above.He pushed his way through the assemblage of Rebel troops and took the reins of oneof the trained Tauntauns, leaping onto the creature's back.
　　"The night storms will start before any of you can reach the first marker," thedeck officer warned.
　　"Then I'll see you in hell," grunted Han, tugging the reins of his mount andmaneuvering the animal out of the cave.
　　Snow was falling heavily as Han Solo raced his Tauntaun through the wilderness.Night was near and the winds were howling fiercely, piercing his heavy clothes. Heknew that he would be as useless as an icicle to Luke unless he found the youngwarrior soon.
　　The Tauntaun was already feeling the effects of the temperature drop. Not evenits layers of insulating fat or the matted gray fur could protect it from the elementsafter nightfall. Already the beast was wheezing, its breathing becoming increasinglylabored.
　　Han prayed that the snow-lizard wouldn't drop, at least not until he had locatedLuke.
　　He drove his mount harder, forcing it on across the icy plains.
　　Another figure was moving across the snow, its metal body hovering above thefrozen ground.
　　The Imperial Probe Droid paused briefly in mid-flight, its sensors twitching.
　　Then, satisfied with its findings, the robot gently lowered itself, coming to reston the ground. Like spider legs, several probes separated from the metal hull,dislodging some of the snow that had settled there.
　　Something began to take shape around the robot, a pulsating glow that graduallycovered the machine as if with a transparent dome. Quickly this force fieldsolidified, repelling the blowing snow that brushed over the droid's hull.
　　After a moment the glow faded, and the blowing snow soon formed a perfectdome of white, completely concealing the droid and its protective force field.
　　The Tauntaun was racing at maximum speed, certainly too fast considering thedistance it had traveled and the unbearable frigid air. No longer wheezing, it hadbegun moaning pitifully, and its legs were becoming more and more unsteady. Hanfelt sorry about the Tauntaun's pain, but at present the creature's life was onlysecondary to that of his friend Luke.
　　It was becoming difficult for Han to see through the thickening snowfall.Desperate, he searched for some interruption in the eternal plains, some distant spotthat might actually be Luke. But there was nothing to see other than the darkeningexpanses of snow and ice.
　　Yet there was a sound.
　　Han drew the reins in, bringing the Tauntaun to an abrupt halt on the plain.Solo could not be certain, but there seemed to be some sound other than the howlingof the winds that whipped past him. He strained to look in the direction of thesound.
　　Then he spurred his Tauntaun, forcing it to gallop across the snow-swept field.
　　Luke could have been a corpse, food for the scavengers, by the time the light ofdawn returned. But somehow he was still alive, though barely, and struggling to staythat way even with the night storms violently assaulting him. Luke painfully pulledhimself upright from the snow, only to be blasted back down by the freezing gale.As he fell he considered the irony of it all-a farm boy from Tatooine maturing tobattle the Death Star, now perishing alone in a frozen alien wasteland.
　　It took all of Luke's remaining strength to drag himself a half meter beforefinally collapsing, sinking into the ever-deepening drifts. "I can't´" he said, thoughno one could hear his words.
　　But someone, though still unseen, had heard.
　　"You must." The words vibrated in Luke's mind. "Luke, look at me!"
　　Luke could not ignore that command; the power of those softly spoken wordswas too great.
　　With a great effort, Luke lifted his head and saw what he thought was ahallucination. In front of him, apparently unaffected by the cold and still clad onlyin the shabby robes he had worn in the hot desert of Tatooine, stood Ben Kenobi.
　　Luke wanted to call out to him, but he was speechless.
　　The apparition spoke with the same gentle authority Ben had always used withthe young man. "You must survive, Luke."
　　The young commander found the strength to move his lips again. "I'mcold´so cold´"
　　You must go to the Dagobah system," the spectral figure of Ben Kenobiinstructed. "You will learn from Yoda, the Jedi Master, the one who taught me."
　　Luke listened, then reached to touch the ghostly figure. "Ben´Ben´" hegroaned.
　　The figure remained unmoved by Luke's efforts to reach it. "Luke," it spokeagain, "you're our only hope."
　　Our only hope.
　　Luke was confused. Yet before he could gather the strength to ask for anexplanation, the figure began to fade. And when every trace of the apparition hadpassed from his sight, Luke thought he saw the approach of a Tauntaun with a humanrider on its back. The snow-lizard was approaching, its gait unsteady. The riderwas still too far away, too obscured by the storm for identification.
　　In desperation the young Rebel commander called out, "Ben?!" before againdropping off into unconsciousness.
　　The snow-lizard was barely able to stand on its saurian hind legs when Han Soloreined it to a stop and dismounted.
　　Han looked with horror at the snow-covered, almost frozen form lying as if deadat his feet.
　　"Come on, buddy," he appealed to Luke's inert figure, immediately forgetting hisown nearly frozen body, "you aren't dead yet. Give me a signal here."
　　Han could detect no sign of life, and noticed that Luke's face, nearly coveredwith snow, was savagely torn. He rubbed at the youth's face, being careful not totouch the drying wounds. "Don't' do this, Luke. It's not your time."
　　Finally a slight response. A low moan, barely audible over the winds, wasstrong enough to send a warm glow through Han's own shivering body. He grinnedwith relief. "I knew you wouldn't leave me out here all alone! We've got to getyou out of here."
　　Knowing that Luke's salvation-and his own-lay in the speed of the Tauntaun,Han moved toward the beast, carrying the young warrior limply in his arms. Butbefore he could drape the unconscious form over the animal's back, the snow-lizardgave an agonized roar, then fell into a shaggy gray heap on the snow. Laying hiscompanion down, Han rushed to the side of the fallen creature. The Tauntaun madeone final sound, not a roar or bellow but only a sickly rasp. Then the beast wassilent.
　　Solo gripped the Tauntaun's hide, his numbed fingers searching for even theslightest indication of life. "Deader than a Triton moon," he said, knowing that Lukedid not hear a word. "We haven't got much time."
　　Resting Luke's motionless form against the belly of the dead snow-lizard, Hanproceeded to work. It might be something of a sacrilege, he mused, using a JediKnight's favorite weapon like this, but right now Luke's lightsaber was the mostefficient and precise tool to cut through the thick skin of a Tauntaun.
　　At first the weapon felt strange in his hand, but momentarily he was cutting theanimal's carcass from hairy head to scaly hind paws. Han winced at the foul odorthat rose from the steaming incision. There were few things he could remember thatstank like a snow-lizard's innards. Without deliberation he tossed the slipperyentrails into the snow.
　　When the animal's corpse had been entirely eviscerated, Han shoved his friendinside the warm, hair-covered skin. "I know this doesn't smell so good, Luke, butit'll keep you from freezing. I'm sure this Tauntaun wouldn't hesitate if it were theother way around."
　　From the body of the snow-lizard, another blast of entrail-stench rose out of thedisemboweled cavity. "Whew!" Han almost gagged. "It's just as well you're outcold, pal."
　　There wasn't much time left to do what had to be done. Han's freezing handswent to the supply pack strapped to the Tauntaun's back and rummaged through theRebel-issue items until he located the shelter container.
　　Before unpacking it, he spoke into his comlink. "Echo Base, do you copy?"
　　No response.
　　"This comlink is useless!"
　　The sky had darkened ominously and the winds blew violently, making evenbreathing close to impossible. Han fought to open the shelter container and stifflybegan to construct the one piece of Rebel equipment that might protect them both-ifonly for a short while longer.
　　"If I don't get this shelter up fast," he grumbled to himself, "Jabba won't needthose bounty hunters."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  