  

The Empire Strikes Back
III

　　Artoo-Detoo stood just outside the entrance to the secret Rebel ice hangar, dustedwith a layer of snow that had settled over his plug-shaped body. His inner timingmechanisms knew he had waited here a long time and his optical sensor told him thatthe sky was dark. 
　　But the R2 unit was concerned only with his built-in probe-sensors that were stillsending signals across the ice fields. His long and earnest sensor-search for themissing Luke Skywalker and Han Solo had not turned up a thing.
　　The stout droid began beeping nervously when Threepio approached him,plodding stiffly through the snow.
　　"Artoo," the gold-colored robot inclined the upper half of his form at the hipjoints, "there's nothing more you can do. You must come inside." Threepiostraightened to his full height again, simulating a human shiver as the night windshowled past his gleaming hull. "Artoo, my joints are freezing up. Will youhurry´please?´" But before he could finish his own sentence, Threepio washurrying back toward the hangar entrance.
　　Hoth's sky was then entirely black with night, and Princess Leia Organa stoodinside the Rebel base entrance, maintaining a worried vigil. She shivered in thenight wind as she tried to see into the Hoth darkness. Waiting near a deeplyconcerned Major Derlin, her mind was somewhere out on the ice fields.
　　The giant Wookiee sat nearby, his maned head lifting quickly from his hairyhands as the two droids Threepio and Artoo reentered the hangar.
　　Threepio was humanly distraught. "Artoo has not been able to pick up anysignals," he reported, fretting, "although he feels his range is probably too limited tocause us to give up hope." Still, very little confidence could be detected inThreepio's artificial voice.
　　Leia gave the taller droid a nod of acknowledgment, but did not speak. Herthoughts were occupied with the pair of missing heroes. Most disturbing to her wasthat she found her mind focused on one of the two: a dark-haired Corellian whosewords were not always to be taken literally.
　　As the princess kept watch, Major Derlin turned to acknowledge a Rebellieutenant reporting in. "All patrols are now in except Solo and Skywalker, sir."
　　The major looked over at Princess Leia. "Your Highness," he said, his voiceweighty with regret, "nothing more can be done tonight. The temperature isdropping fast. The shield doors must be closed. I'm sorry." Derlin waited amoment, then addressed the lieutenant. "Close the doors."
　　The Rebel officer turned to carry out Derlin's order and immediately thechamber of ice seemed to drop even more in temperature as the mournful Wookieehowled his grief.
　　"The speeders should be ready in the morning," the major said to Leia."They'll make the search easier."
　　Not really expecting an affirmative reply, Leia asked, "Is there any chance oftheir surviving until the morning?"
　　"Slim," Major Derlin answered with grim honesty. "But yes, there's a chance."
　　In response to the major's words, Artoo began to operate the miniaturecomputers inside his barrel-like metal body, taking only moments to juggle numeroussets of mathematical computations, and climaxing his figurings with a series oftriumphant beeps.
　　"Ma'am," Threepio interpreted, "Artoo says the chances against survival areseven hundred twenty-five to one." Then, tilting toward the shorter robot, theprotocol droid grumbled, "Actually, I don't think we needed to know that."
　　No one responded to Threepio's translation. For several prolonged momentsthere was a solemn silence, broken only by the echoing clang of metal slammingagainst metal: the huge doors of the Rebel base were closed for the night. It was asif some heartless deity had officially severed the assembled group from the two menout on the ice plains and had, with a metallic bang, announced their deaths.
　　Chewbacca led out another suffering howl.
　　And a silent prayer, often spoken on an erstwhile world called Alderaan, creptinto Leia's thoughts.
　　The sun that was creeping over Hoth's northern horizon was relatively dim, butits light was enough to shed some warmth on the planet's icy surface. The lightcrawled across the rolling hills of snow, fought to reach the darker recesses of the icygorges, then finally came to rest on what must have been the only perfect whitemound on the entire world.
　　So perfect was the snow-covered mound that it must have owed its existence tosome power other than Nature. Then, as the sky grew steadily brighter, this moundbegan to hum. Anyone observing the mound now would have been startled as thesnow dome seemed to erupt, sending its snowy outer covering skyward in a greatburst of white particles. A droning machine began pulling back its retractable sensorarms, and its awesome bulks slowly rose from its frozen white bed.
　　The probe robot paused briefly in the windy air, then continued on its morningmission across the snow-covered plains.
　　Something else had invaded the morning air of the ice world-a relatively small,snub-nosed craft, with dark cockpit windows and laser guns mounted on each side.The Rebel snowspeeder was heavily armored and designed for warfare near theplanet's surface. But this morning the small craft was on a reconnaissance mission,racing above the expansive white landscape and arcing over the contours of thesnowdrifts.
　　Although the snowspeeder was designed for a two-man crew, Zev was the ship'sonly occupant. His eyes took in a panoramic scan of the desolate stretches below,and he prayed that he would find the objects of his search before he went snow-blind.
　　Presently he heard a low beeping signal.
　　"Echo Base," he shouted jubilantly into his cockpit comlink, "I've got something!Not much, but it could be a sign of life. Sector four-six-one-four by eight-eight0two.I'm closing in."
　　Frantically working the controls of his ship, Zev reduced its speed slightly andbanked the craft over a snowdrift. He welcomed the sudden G-force pressing himagainst his seat and headed the snowspeeder in the direction of the faint signal.
　　As the white infinity of Hoth's terrain streaked under him, the Rebel pilotswitched his comlink to a new frequency. "Echo Three, this is Rogue Two. Doyou copy? Commander Skywalker, this is Rogue Two."
　　The only reply that came through his comlink receiver was static.
　　But then he heard a voice, a very distant-sounding voice, fighting its waythrough the crackling noise. "Nice of you guys to drop by. Hope we didn't get youup too early."
　　Zev welcomed the characteristic cynicism in Han Solo's voice. He switched histransmitter back to the hidden Rebel base. "Echo Base, this is Rogue Two," hereported, his voice suddenly rising in pitch. "I found them. Repeat´"
　　As he spoke, the pilot pulled in a fine-tune fix on the signals winking on hiscockpit monitor screens. Then he further reduced the speed of his craft, bringing itdown close enough to the planet's surface so that he could better see a small objectstanding out against the fleecy plains.
　　The object, a portable Rebel-issue shelter, sat atop a snowdrift. On the shelter'swindward side was a hard-packed layer of white. And resting gingerly against theupper part of the snowdrift was a makeshift radio antenna.
　　But a more welcome sight than any of this was the familiar human figurestanding in front of the snow shelter, frantically waving his arms at the snowspeeder.
　　As Zev dipped his craft for a landing, he felt overwhelmingly grateful that atleast one of the warriors he had been sent out to find was still alive.
　　Only a thick glass window separated the battered, near-frozen body of LukeSkywalker from four of his watchful friends.
　　Han Solo, who appreciated the relative warmth of the Rebel medical center, wasstanding beside Leia, his Wookiee copilot, Artoo-Detoo, and See-Threepio. Hanexhaled with relief. He knew that, despite the grim atmosphere of the chamberenclosing him, the young commander was finally out of danger and in the best ofmechanical hands.
　　Clad only in white shorts, Luke hung in a vertical position inside a transparentcylinder with a combination breath mask and microphone covering his nose andmouth. The surgeon droid, Too-Onebee, was attending to the youth with the skill ofthe finest humanoid doctors. He was aided by his medical assistant droid, FX-7,which looked like nothing more than a metal-capped set of cylinders, wires, andappendages. Gracefully, the surgeon droid worked a switch that brought a gelatinousred fluid pouring down over his human patient. This bacta, Han knew, could workmiracles, even with patients in such dire shape as Luke.
　　As the bubbling slime encapsulated his body, Luke began to thrash about andrave deliriously. "Watch out," he moaned. "´snow creatures.Dangerous´Yoda´go to Yoda´only hope."
　　Han had not the slightest idea what his friend was raving about. Chewbacca,also perplexed by the youth's babbling, expressed himself with an interrogativeWookiee bark.
　　"He doesn't make sense to me either, Chewie," Han replied.
　　Threepio commented hopefully, "I do hope he's all there, if you take mymeaning. It would be most unfortunate if Master Luke were to develop a shortcircuit."
　　"The kid ran into something," Han observed matter-of-factly, "and it wasn't justthe cold."
　　"It's those creatures he keeps talking about," Leia said, looking at the grimlystaring Solo. "We've doubled the security, Han," she began, tentatively trying tothank him, "I don't know how-"
　　"Forget it," he said brusquely. Right now he was concerned only with hisfriend in the red bacta fluid.
　　Luke's body sloshed through the brightly colored substance, the bacta's healingproperties by now taking effect. For a while it appeared as if Luke were trying toresist the curative flow of the translucent muck. Then, at last, he gave up hismumbling and relaxed, succumbing to the bacta's powers.
　　Too-Onebee turned away from the human who had been entrusted to his care.He angled his skull-shaped head to gaze at Han and the others through the window."Commander Skywalker has been in dormo-shock but is responding well to thebacta," the robot announced, his commanding, authoritative voice heard distinctlythough the glass. "He is now out of danger."
　　The surgeon robot's words immediately wiped away the tension that had seizedthe group on the other side of the window. Leia sighed in relief, and Chewbaccagrunted his approval of Too-Onebee's treatment.
　　Luke had no way of estimating how long he had been delirious. But now hewas in full command of his mind and senses. He sat up on his bed in the Rebelmedical center. What a relief, he thought, to be breathing real air again, howevercold it might be.
　　A medical droid was removing the protective pad from his healing face. Hiseyes were uncovered and he was beginning to perceive the face of someone standingby his bed. Gradually Threepio smiling image of Princess Leia came into focus.She gracefully moved toward him and gently brushed his hair out of his eyes.
　　"The bacta are growing well," she said as she looked at his healing wounds."The scars should be gone in a day or so. Does it still hurt you?"
　　Across the room, the door banged open. Artoo beeped in a cheerful greeting ashe rolled toward Luke, and Threepio clanked noisily toward Luke's bed. "MasterLuke, it's good to see you functional again."
　　"Thanks, Threepio."
　　Artoo emitted a series of happy beeps and whistles.
　　"Artoo expresses his relief also," Threepio translated helpfully.
　　Luke was certainly grateful for the robots' concern. But before he could replyto either of the droids, he met with yet another interruption.
　　"Hi, kid," Han Solo greeted him boisterously as he and Chewbacca burst into themedical center.
　　The Wookiee growled a friendly greeting.
　　"You look strong enough to wrestle a Gundark," Han observed.
　　Luke felt that strong, and felt grateful to his friend. "Thanks to you."
　　"That's two you owe me, junior." Han gave the princess a wide, devilish grin."Well, Your Worship," he said mockingly, "it looks like you arranged to keep meclose by for a while longer."
　　"I had nothing to do with it," Leia said hotly, annoyed at Han's vanity."General Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for any ships to leave the system until thegenerators are operational."
　　"That makes a good story. But I think you just can't bear to let me out of yoursight."
　　"I don't know where you get your delusions, laser brains," she retorted.
　　Chewbacca amused by this verbal battle between two of the strongest humanwills he had ever encountered, let out a roaring Wookiee laugh.
　　"Laugh it up, fuzz ball," Han said good-naturedly. "You didn't see us alone inthe south passage."
　　Until now, Luke had scarcely listened to this lively exchange. Han and theprincess had argued frequently enough in the past. But that reference to the southpassage sparked his curiosity, and he looked at Leia for an explanation.
　　"She expressed her true feeling for me," Han continued, delighting in the rosyflush that appeared on the princess's cheeks. "Come on, Your Highness, you'vealready forgotten."
　　"Why, you low-down, stuck-up, half-witted, scruffy-looking nerf-herder´" shesputtered in fury.
　　"Who's scruffy-looking?" he grinned. "I tell ya, sweetheart, I must've hitpretty close to the mark to get you hoppin' like this. Doesn't it look that way to you,Luke?"
　　"Yeah," he said, staring at the princess incredulously, "it does´kind of."
　　Leia looked over at Luke with a strange mixture of emotions showing on herflushed face. Something vulnerable, almost childlike, was reflected in her eyes for amoment. And then the tough mask fell again.
　　"Oh, it does, does it?" she said. "Well, I guess you don't understand everythingabout women, do you?"
　　Luke agreed silently. He agreed even more when in the next moment Leialeaned over and kissed him firmly on the lips. Then she turned on her heel andmarched across the room, slamming the door behind her. Everyone in theroom-human, Wookiee, and droid-looked at one another, speechless.
　　In the distance, a warning alarm blared through the subterranean corridors.
　　General Rieekan and his head controller were conferring in the Revel commandcenter when Han Solo and Chewbacca burst into the room. Princess Leia andThreepio, who had been listening to the general and his officer, turned in anticipationat their approach.
　　A warning signal blared across the chamber from the huge console locatedbehind Rieekan and monitored by Rebel control officers.
　　"General," the sensor controller called.
　　Grimly attentive, General Rieekan watched the console screens. Suddenly hesaw a flashing signal that had not been there a moment before. "Princess," he said,"I think we have a visitor."
　　Leia, Han, Chewbacca, and Threepio gathered around the general and watchedthe beeping monitor screens.
　　"We've picked up something outside the base in Zone Twelve. It's movingeast," said Rieekan.
　　"Whatever it is, it's metal," the sensor controller observed.
　　Leia's eyes widened in surprise. "Then it can't be one of those creatures thatattacked Luke?"
　　"Could it be ours?" Han asked. "A speeder?"
　　The sensor controller shook his head. "No, there's no signal." Then came asound from another monitor. "Wait, something very weak´"
　　Walking as rapidly as his stiff joints allowed, Threepio approached the console.His auditory sensors turned in the strange signals. "I must say, sir, I'm fluent in oversixty million forms of communication, but this is something new. Must be in a codeor-"
　　Just then the voice of a Rebel trooper cut in through the console's comlinkspeaker. "This is Echo Station Three-Eight. Unidentified object is in our scope.It's just over the ridge. We should have visual contact in about-" Withoutwarning the voice filled with fear. "What the-? Oh, no!"
　　A burst of radio static followed, then the transmission broke off completely.
　　Han frowned. "Whatever it is," he said, "it isn't friendly. Let's have a look.Come on, Chewie."
　　Even before Han and Chewbacca were out of the chamber, General Rieekan haddispatched Rogues Ten and Eleven to Station Three-Eight.
　　The mammoth Imperial Star Destroyer occupied a position of deadly prominencein the Emperor's fleet. The sleekly elongated ship was larger and even moreominous than the five wedge-shaped Imperial Star Destroyers guarding it. Togetherthese six cruisers were the most dreaded and devastating warships in the galaxy,capable of reducing to cosmic scrap anything that stayed too close to their weapons.
　　Flanking the Star Destroyers were a number of smaller fighter ships and, dartingabout this great space armada, were the infamous TIE fighters.
　　Supreme confidence reigned in the heart of every crew member in this Imperialdeath squadron, especially among the personnel on the monstrous central StarDestroyer. But something also blazed within their souls. Fear-fear of merely thesound of the familiar heavy footsteps as they echoed through the enormous ship.Crew members dreaded these footfalls and shuddered whenever they were heardapproaching, brining their much feared, but much respected leader.
　　Towering above them in his black cloak and concealing black headgear, DarthVader, Dark Lord of Sith, entered the main control deck, and the men around him fellsilent. In what seemed to be an endless moment, no sound except those from theship's control boards and the loud wheezes coming from the ebony figure's metalbreath screen were to be heard.
　　As Darth Vader watched the endless array of stars, Captain Piett rushed acrossthe wide bridge of the ship, carrying a message for the squat, evil-looking AdmiralOzzel, who was stationed on the bridge. "I think we've found something, Admiral,"he announced nervously, looking from Ozzel to the Dark Lord.
　　"Yes, Captain?" The admiral was a supremely confident man who felt relaxedin the presence of his cloaked superior.
　　"The report we have is only a fragment, from a probe droid in the Hoth system.But it's the best lead we've had in-"
　　"We have had thousands of probe droids searching the galaxy," Ozzel broke inangrily. "I want proof, not leads. I don't intend to continue to chase around fromone side of-"
　　Abruptly the figure in black approached the two and interrupted. "You foundsomething?" he asked, his voice somewhat distorted by the breath mask.
　　Captain Piett respectfully gazed at his master, who loomed above him like ablack-robed, omnipotent god. "Yes, sir," Piett said slowly, choosing his words withcaution. "We have visuals. The system is supposed to be devoid of humanforms´"
　　But Vader was no longer listening to the captain. His masked face turnedtoward an image beamed on one of the viewscreens-an image of a small squadron ofRebel snowspeeders streaking above the white fields.
　　"That's it," Darth Vader boomed without further deliberation.
　　"My lord," Admiral Ozzel protested, "there are so many uncharted settlements.It could be smugglers-"
　　"That is the one!" the former Jedi Knight insisted, clenching a black-gloved fist."And Skywalker is with them. Bring in the patrol ships, Admiral, and set yourcourse for the Hoth system." Vader looked toward an officer wearing a green uniformwith matching cap. "General Veers," the Dark Lord addressed him, "prepare yourmen."
　　As soon as Darth Vader had spoken, his men set about to launch his fearful plan.
　　The Imperial Probe Droid raised a large antenna from its buglike head and sentout a piercing, high-frequency signal. The robot's scanners had reacted to a lifeformhidden behind a great dune of snow and noted the appearance of a brown Wookieehead and the sound of a deep-throated growl. The blasters that had been built intothe probe robot took aim at the furry giant. But before the robot had a chance to fire,a red beam from a hand blaster exploded from behind the Imperial Probe Droid andnicked its darkly finished hull.
　　As he ducked behind a large snow dune, Han Solo noticed Chewbacca stillhidden, and then watched the robot spun around in midair to face him. So far theruse was working and now he was the target. Han had barely moved out of range asthe floating machine fired, blasting chunks of snow from the edge of his dune. Hefired again, hitting it square on with the beam of his weapon. Then he heard ahigh-pitched whine coming from the deadly machine, and in an instant the ImperialProbe Droid burst into a billion or more flaming pieces.
　　"´I'm afraid there's not much left,: Han said over the comlink as he concludedhis report to the underground base.
　　Princess Leia and General Rieekan were still manning the console where theyhad maintained constant communication with Han. "What is it?" Leia asked.
　　"Droid of some kind," he answered. "I didn't hit it that hard. It must have hada self-destruct."
　　Leia paused as she considered this unwelcome piece of information. "AnImperial droid," she said, betraying some trepidation.
　　"If it was," Han warned, "the Empire surely knows we're here."
　　General Rieekan shook his head slowly. "We'd better start to evacuate theplanet."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  