  

The Empire Strikes Back
V

　　 No one on Hoth heard the sound. At first, it was simply too distant to carry abovethe whining winds. Besides, the Rebel troopers, fighting the cold as they preparedfor battle, were too busy to really listen. 
　　In the snow trenches, Rebel officers screamed out their orders to makethemselves heard above the gale-force winds. Troopers hurried to carry out theircommands, running through the snow with heavy bazookalike weapons on theirshoulders, and lodging those death rays along the icy rims of the trenches.
　　The Rebel power generators near the gun towers began popping, buzzing, andcrackling with deafening bursts of electrical power-enough to supply the vastunderground complex. But above all this activity and noise a strange sound could beheard, an ominous thumping that was coming nearer and was beginning to shake thefrozen ground. When it was close enough to attract the attention of an officer, hestrained to see through the storm, looking for the source of the heavy, rhythmicpounding. Other men looked up from their work and saw what looked like a numberof moving specks. Through the blizzard, the small dots seemed to be advancing at aslow yet steady pace, churning up clouds of snow as they moved toward the Rebelbase.
　　The officer raised his electrobinoculars and focused on the approaching objects.There must have been dozen of them resolutely advancing through the snow, lookinglike creatures out of some uncharted past. But they were machines, each of themstalking like enormous ungulates on four jointed legs.
　　Walkers!
　　With a shock of recognition, the officer identified the Empire's All TerrainArmored Transports. Each machine was formidably armed with cannons placed onits foreside like the horns of some prehistoric beast. Moving like mechanizedpachyderms, the walkers emitted deadly fire from their turnstile guns and cannons.
　　The officer grabbed his comlink. "Rogue Leader´Incoming! Point ZeroThree,"
　　"Echo Station Five-Seven, we're on our way."
　　Even as Luke Skywalker replied, an explosion sprayed ice and snow around theofficer and his terror-struck men. The walkers already had them within range. Thetroopers knew their job was to divert attention while the transport ships were launched,but none of the Rebel soldiers was prepared to die under the feet or weapons of thesehorrible machines.
　　Brilliant billows of orange and yellow flames exploded from the walker guns.Nervously the Rebel troopers aimed their weapons at the walkers, each soldier feelingicy, unseen fingers pierce his body.
　　Of the twelve snowspeeders, four took the lead, soaring at full throttle as theymoved toward the enemy. One All Terrain Armored Transport machine fired, barelymissing the banking craft. A burst of gunfire blew another speeder into a ball offlaming oblivion that lit up the sky.
　　Luke saw the explosion of his squadron's first casualty as he looked from hiscockpit window. Angrily, Luke fired his ship's guns at a walker, only to receive ahail of Imperial fire power that shook his speeder in a barrage of flak.
　　Regaining control of his ship, Luke was joined by another snowspeeder, RogueThree. They swarmed like insects around the relentlessly stomping walkers, as otherspeeders continued to exchange fire with the Imperial assault machines. RogueLeader and Rogue Three flitted alongside the lead walker, then moved away fromeach other, both banking to the right.
　　Luke saw the horizon tilt as he maneuvered his speeder between the walker'sjointed legs and soared out from under the monster machine. Bringing his speederback to horizontal flight, the young commander contacted his companion ship."Rogue Leader to Rogue Three."
　　"Copy, Rogue Leader," acknowledged Wedge, the pilot of Rogue Three.
　　"Wedge," Luke called into his comlink, "split your squad into pairs." Luke'ssnowspeeder then banked and turned, while Wedge's ship moved off in the oppositedirection with another Rebel craft.
　　The walkers, firing all cannons, continued their march across the snow. Insideone of the assault machines two Imperial pilots had spotted the Rebel guns,conspicuous against the white field. The pilots began to maneuver the walkertoward the guns when they noticed a lone snowspeeder making a reckless chargedirectly toward their main viewport, guns blazing. A huge explosion flashed outsidethe impenetrable window and dissipated as the snowspeeder, roaring through thesmoke, disappeared overhead.
　　As Luke soared up and away from the walker, he looked back. That armor istoo strong for blasters, he thought. There must be some other way of attacking thesehorrors; something other than fire power. For a moment Luke thought of some ofthe simple tactics a farm boy might employ against a wild beast. Then, turning hissnowspeeder for yet another run against the walkers, he made a decision.
　　"Rogue group," he called into his comlink, "use your harpoons and tow cables.Go for the legs. It's our only hope of stopping them. Hobbie, are you still withme?"
　　The reassuring voice immediately responded. "Yes, sir."
　　"Well, stick close now."
　　As he leveled his ship, Luke was grimly determined to glide in tight formationwith Hobbie. Together they veered, dropping nearer Hoth's surface.
　　In Luke's cockpit, his gunner, Dack, was jostled by the abrupt movement of thecraft. Trying to keep his grip on the Rebel harpoon gun in his hand, he shouted,"Whoea! Luke, I can't seem to find my restraints."
　　Explosions rocked Luke's ship, tossing it about violently in the enveloping flak.Through the window he could see another walker that appeared to be unaffected bythe full fire power of the Rebel attack speeders. This lumbering machine nowbecame Luke's target as he flew, moving in a descending arc. The walker was firingdirectly at him, creating a wall of laser bolts and flak.
　　"Just hang on, Dack," he yelled over the explosions, "and get ready to fire thattow cable!"
　　Another great blast shook Luke's snowspeeder. He fought to regain control asthe ship wobbled in its flight. Luke began to sweat profusely, despite the cold, as hedesperately attempted to right his plunging ship. But the horizon still spun in frontof him.
　　"Stand by, Dack. We're almost there. Are you okay?"
　　Dack didn't answer. Luke managed to turn and saw that Hobbie's speeder wasmaintaining its course next to him as they evaded the explosions bursting around them.He craned his head around and saw Dack, blood streaming from his forehead slumpedagainst the controls.
　　"Dack!"
　　On the ground, the gun towers near the Rebel power generators blasted away atthe walking Imperial machines, but with no apparent effect. Imperial weaponsbombarded the area all around them, blasting the snow skyward, almost blinding theirhuman targets with the continuous onslaught. The officer who had first seen theincredible machines and fought alongside his men, was one of the first to be cut downby a walker's body-ripping rays. Troops rushed to his aid, but couldn't save him;too much of his blood had already spilled, making a scarlet stain against the snow.
　　More Rebel fire power blasted from one of the dishlike guns that had beenerected near the power generators. Despite these tremendous explosions, thewalkers continued to march. Another speeder made a heroic dive between a pair ofthe walkers, only to be caught by fire from one of the machines that exploded it into agreat ball of rippling flames.
　　The surface explosions made the walls of the ice hangar tremble, causing deepcracks to spread.
　　Han Solo and Chewbacca were working frantically to complete their welding job.As they worked, it became obvious that the widening cracks would soon bring theentire ice ceiling smashing down upon them.
　　"First chance we get," Han said, "we're giving this crate a complete overhaul.But he knew that first he would have to get the Millennium Falcon out of this whitehell.
　　Even as he and the Wookiee labored on the ship, enormous pieces of ice, brokenloose by the explosions, came tumbling down throughout the underground base.Princess Leia moved quickly, trying to avoid the falling frozen chunks, as she soughtshelter in the Rebel command center.
　　"I'm not sure we can protect two transports at a time," General Rieekan told heras she entered the chamber.
　　"It's risky," she answered, "but our holding action is faltering." Leia realizedthat the transport launchings were taking too much time and that the procedure had tobe hastened.
　　Rieekan issued a command through his comlink. "Launch patrol, proceed withaccelerated departures´"
　　As the general gave his order, Leia looked toward an aide and said, "Beginclearing the remaining ground stuff." But she knew that their escape dependedcompletely on Rebel success in the on-going battle above.
　　Inside the cold and cramped cockpit of the lead Imperial walker, General Veersmoved between his snow-suited pilots. "What is the distance to the powergenerators?"
　　Without looking away from the control panel, one of the pilots replied,"Six-four-one."
　　Satisfied, General Veers reached for an electrotelescope and peered through theviewfinder to focus on the bullet-shaped power generators and the Rebel soldiersfighting to save them. Suddenly the walker began to rock violently under a barrageof Rebel gunfire. As he was propelled backward, Veers saw his pilot scramblingover the controls to keep the machine from toppling over.
　　The Rogue Three snowspeeder had just attacked the lead walker. Its pilot,Wedge, hooted with a loud Rebel shout of victory as he saw the damage his guns hadcaused.
　　Other snowspeeders passed Wedge, racing in the opposite direction. He steeredhis craft on a direct course toward another walking death machine. As heapproached the monster, Wedge shouted to his gunner, "Activate harpoon.!"
　　The gunner pressed the firing switch as his pilot daringly maneuvered their craftthrough the walker's legs. Immediately the harpoon whooshed from the rear of thespeeder, a long length of cable unwinding behind it.
　　"Cable out!" the gunner yelled. "Let her go!"
　　Wedge saw the harpoon plunge into one of the metal legs, the cable stillconnected to his snowspeeder. He checked his controls, then brought the speederaround in front of the Imperial machine. Making an abrupt turn, Wedge guided hisship around one of the hind legs, the cable banding around it like a metallic lariat.
　　So far, thought Wedge, Luke's plan was working. Now all he had to do was flyhis speeder around to the tail end of the walker. Wedge caught a glimpse of RogueLeader as he carried out the maneuver.
　　"Cable out!" shouted the speeder's gunner again as Wedge flew their craftalongside the cable-entangled walker, close to the metal hull. Wedge's gunnerdepressed another switch and released the cable from the rear of the snowspeeder.
　　The speeder zoomed away and Wedge laughed as he looked down at the resultsof their efforts. The walker was awkwardly struggling to continue on its way, but theRebel cable had completely entangled its legs. Finally it leaned to one side andcrashed against the ground, its impact stirring up a cloud of ice and snow.
　　"Rogue Leader´One down, Luke," Wedge announced to the pilot of hiscompanion speeder.
　　"I see it, Wedge," Commander Skywalker answered. "Good work."
　　In the trenches, Rebel troops cheered in triumph when they saw the assaultmachine topple. An officer leaped from his snow trench and signaled his men.Bolting out of the trench, he led his troopers in a boisterous charge against the fallenwalker, reaching the great metallic hulk before a single Imperial soldier could pullhimself free.
　　The Rebels were about to enter the walker when it suddenly exploded fromwithin, hurtling great jagged chunks of torn metal at them, the impact of the blastflinging the stunned troops back against the snow.
　　Luke and Zev could see the destruction of the walker as they flew overhead,banking from right to left to avoid the flak bursting around them. When they finallyleveled off, their craft were shaken by explosions from the walker's cannons.
　　"Steady, Rogue Two," Luke said, looking over at the snowspeeder flying parallelto his own ship. "Set harpoon. I'll cover for you."
　　But there was another explosion, this one damaging the front section of Zev'sship. The pilot could barely see through the engulfing cloud of smoke that foggedhis windshield. He fought to keep his ship on a horizontal path, but more blasts bythe enemy made it rock violently.
　　His view had become so obscured that it wasn't until Zev was directly in the lineof fire that he saw the massive image of another Imperial walker. Rogue Two's pilotfelt an instant of pain; then his snub-nosed craft, spewing smoke and hurtling on acollision course with the walker, suddenly erupted in flames amid a burst of cannonfire. Very little of Zev or his ship remained to hit the ground.
　　Luke saw the disintegration and was sickened by the loss of yet another friend.But he couldn't let himself dwell on his grief, especially now when so many otherlives depended on his steady leadership.
　　He looked around desperately, then spoke into his comlink."Wedge´Wedge´Rogue Three. Set your harpoon and follow me on the nextpass."
　　As he spoke, Luke was hit hard by a terrific explosion that ripped through hisspeeder. He struggled with the controls in a futile attempt to keep the small craftunder control. A chill of fear swept over him when he noticed the dense twistingfunnel of black smoke pouring from his ship's aft section. He realized then thatthere was no way his damaged speeder could remain aloft. And, to make matterseven worse, a walker loomed directly in his path.
　　Luke struggled with the controls as his ship plunged toward the ground, leaving atrail of smoke and flames behind. By then the heat in the cockpit was nearlyunbearable. Flames were beginning to leap about inside the speeder and werecoming uncomfortably close to Luke. He finally brought his ship down to skid andcrash into the snow just a few meters away from one of the walking Imperialmachines.
　　After impact, Luke struggled to pull himself from the cockpit and looked withhorror at the looming figure of the approaching walker.
　　Gathering all his strength, Luke quickly squeezed himself from under the twistedmetal of the control board and moved up against the top of his cockpit. Somehow hemanaged to open the hatch halfway and climbed out of the ship. With eachelephantine step of the oncoming walker, the speeder shook violently. Luke had notrealized just how enormous these four-legged horrors were until, unprotected by theshelter of his craft, he saw one up close.
　　Then he remembered Dack and returned to try to pull his friend's lifeless formfrom the wrecked speeder. But Luke had to give up. The body was too tightlywedged in the cockpit, and the walker was now almost upon him. Braving theflames, Luke reached into his speeder and grabbed the harpoon gun.
　　He gazed at the advancing mechanical behemoth and suddenly had an idea. Hereached back inside the cockpit of the speeder and groped for a land mine attached tothe ship's interior. With a great effort he stretched his fingers and firmly grasped themine.
　　Luke leaped away from his vehicle just as the towering machine lifted a massivefoot and planted it firmly on the snowspeeder, crushing it flat.
　　Luke crouched underneath the walker, moving with it to avoid its slow steps.Raising his head, he felt the cold wind slap against his face as he studied themonster's vast underbelly.
　　As he ran along under the machine, Luke aimed his harpoon gun and fired. Apowerful magnet attached to a long thin cable was ejected from the gun and firmlyattached itself to the machine's underbelly.
　　Still running, Luke tanked on the cable, testing to make sure its strength wassufficient to sustain his weight. Then he attached the cable drum to the buckle of hisutility belt, allowing its mechanism to pull him up off the ground. Now, danglingfrom the monster's underbelly, Luke could see the remaining walkers and two Rebelsnowspeeders continuing the battle as they soared through fiery explosions.
　　He climbed up to the machine's hull where he had observed a small hatch.Quickly cutting it open with his laser sword, Luke pulled open the hatch, threw in theland mine, and made a rapid descent along the cable. As he reached the end Lukedropped hard onto the snow and became unconscious: his inert body was nearlybrushed by one of the walker's hind fee.
　　As the walker passed over and away from him, a muffled explosion tore at itsinsides. Suddenly the tremendous bulk of the mechanical beast exploded at theseams, machinery and pieces of hull flying in every direction. The Imperial assaultmachine crumbled into a smoking, motionless heap coming to rest upon whatremained of its four stiltlike legs.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  