  

The Empire Strikes Back
VI

　　The Rebel command center, its walls and ceiling still shaking and cracking under theforce of the battle on the surface, was attempting to operate amid the destruction.Pipes, torn apart by the blasting, belched sprays of scalding stem. The white floorwere littered with broken pieces of machinery and chunks of ice were scatteredeverywhere. Except for the distant rumbling of laser fire, the command center wasforebodingly quiet. 
　　There were still Rebel personnel on duty, including Princess Leia, who watchedthe images on the few still-functioning console screens. She wanted to be certainthat the last of the transport ships had slipped past the Imperial armada and wereapproaching their rendezvous point in space.
　　Han Solo rushed into the command center, dodging great sections of the iceceiling that came plunging down at him. One great chunk was followed by anavalanche of ice that poured onto the floor near the entrance to the chamber.Undaunted, Han hurried to the control board where Leia stood beside See-Threepio.
　　"I heard the command center was hit." Han appeared concerned. "Are you allright?"
　　The princess nodded. She was surprised to see him there where the danger wasseverest.
　　"Come on," he urged before she could reply. "You've got to get to your ship."
　　Leia looked exhausted. She had been standing at the console viewscreens forhours and had participated in dispatching Rebel personnel to their posts. Taking herhand, Han led her from the chamber, with the protocol droid clacking after them.
　　As they left, Leia gave one final order to the controller. "Give the evacuationcode signal´and get to the transport."
　　Then, as Leia, Han, and Threepio made their hasty exit from the command center,a voice blared from the public address speakers, echoing in the nearby deserted icecorridors. "Disengage, disengage! Begin retreat action!"
　　"Come, on," Han urged, grimacing. "If you don't get there fast, your shipwon't be able to take off."
　　The walls quaked even more violently than before. Ice chunks continued to fallthroughout the underground base as the three hurried toward the transport ships.They had nearly reached the hangar where Leia's transport ship was waiting, ready fordeparture. But as they neared the corner they found the entrance to the hangarcompletely blocked by ice and snow.
　　Han knew they would have to find some other route to Leia's escape ship-andquickly. He began to lead them back down the corridor, careful to avoid falling ice,and snapped on his comlink as they hurried toward the ship. "Transport C OneSeven!" he yelled into the small microphone. "We're coming! Hold on!"
　　They were close enough to the hangar to hear Leia's escape vessel preparing forlift-off from the Rebel ice base. If he could lead them safely just a few meters more,the princess would be safe and-
　　The chamber suddenly quaked with a terrible noise that thundered through theunderground base. In an instant the entire ceiling had crashed down in front of them,creating a solid barrier of ice between them and the hangar docks. They stared inshock at the dense white mass.
　　"We're cut off," Han yelled into his comlink, knowing that if the transport wereto make good its escape there could be no time wasted in melting down or blastingthrough the barricade. "You'll have to take off without Princess Organa." Heturned to her. "If we're lucky we can still make it to the Falcon."
　　The princess and See-Threepio followed as Han dashed toward another chamber,hoping that the Millennium Falcon and his Wookiee copilot had not already beenburied under an avalanche of ice.
　　Looking out across the white battlefield, the Rebel officer watched the remainingsnowspeeders whisking through the air and the last of the Imperial vehicles as theypassed the wreckage of the exploded walker. He flipped on his comlink and heardthe order to retreat: "Disengage, disengage. Begin retreat action." As he signaledhis men to move back inside the ice cavern, he noticed that the lead walker was stilltreading heavily in the direction of the power generators.
　　In the cockpit of that assault machine, General Veers stepped close to the port.From this position he could clearly see the target below. He studied the cracklingpower generators and observed the Rebel troops defending them.
　　"Point-three-point-three-point-five´coming within range, sir," reported hispilot.
　　The general turned to his assault officer. "All troops will debark for groundassault," Veers said. "Prepare to target the main generator."
　　The lead walker, flanked by two of the hulking machines, lurched forward, itsguns blazing to scatter the retreating Rebel troops.
　　As more laser fire came from the oncoming walkers, Rebel bodies and parts ofRebel bodies were flung through the air. Many of the soldiers who had managed toavoid the obliterating laser beams were crushed into unrecognizable pulp beneath thewalkers' stomping feet. The air was charged with the stink of blood and burningflesh, and thundering with the explosive noises of battle.
　　As they fled, the few surviving Rebel soldiers glimpsed a long snowspeeder as itretreated in the distance, a black trail of smoke escaping its burning hull.
　　Although the smoke rising from his crippled speeder obstructed his view, Hobbiecould still see some of the carnage that raged on the ground. His wounds from awalker's laser fire made it torture even to move, let alone operate the controls of hiscraft. But if he could mange to work them just long enough to return to the base, hemight be able to find a medical robot and´
　　No, he doubted he would survive even that long. He was dying-of that he wasnow certain-and the men in the trench would soon be dead, too, unless somethingwere done to save them.
　　General Veers, proudly transmitting his report to Imperial headquarters, wastotally unaware of Rogue Four's approach. "Yes, Lord Vader, I've reached the mainpower generators. The shield will be down in moments. You may commence yourlanding."
　　As he ended his transmission, General Veers reached for the electrorangefinderand looked through the eyepiece to line up the main power generators. Electroniccrosshairs aligned according to the information from the walker's computer. Thensuddenly the readouts on the small monitor screens mysteriously vanished.
　　Confounded, General Veers moved away from the eyepiece of theelectrorangefinder and turned instinctively toward a cockpit window. He flinched interror at seeing a smoking projectile heading on the direct course toward his walker'scockpit.
　　The other pilots also saw the hurtling speeder, and knew that there was no timeto turn the massive assault machine. "He's going to-" one of the pilots began.
　　At that instant, Hobbie's burning ship crashed through the walker cockpit like amanned bomb, its fuel igniting into a cascade of flame and debris. For a secondthere were human screams, then fragments, and the entire machine crashed to theground.
　　Perhaps it was the sound of this nearby blast that jarred Luke Skywalker back toconsciousness. Dazed, he slowly lifted his head from the snow. He felt very weakand was achingly stiff with cold. The thought crossed his mind that frostbite mightalready have damaged his tissues. He hoped not; he had no desire to spend any moretime in that sticky bacta fluid.
　　He tried to stand, but fell back against the snow, hoping he would not be spottedby any of the walker pilots. His comlink whistled, and somehow he found thestrength to flick on its receiver.
　　"Forward units' withdrawal complete," the broadcast voice reported.
　　Withdrawal? Luke thought a moment. Then Leia and the others must haveescaped! Luke suddenly felt that all the fighting and the deaths of loyal Rebelpersonnel had not been for nothing. A warmth rushed through his body, and hegathered his strength to rise and begin making the long trek back toward a distantformation of ice.
　　Another explosion rocked the Rebel hangar deck, cracking the ceiling and almostburying the docked Millennium Falcon in a mound of ice. At any moment the entireceiling might cave in. the only safe place in the hangar seemed to be underneath theship itself where Chewbacca was impatiently awaiting the return of his captain. TheWookiee had begun to worry. If Han did not return soon, the Falcon would surelybe buried in a tomb of ice. But loyalty to his partner kept Chewie from taking off inthe freighter alone.
　　As the hangar started to tremble more violently, Chewbacca detected movementin the adjoining chamber. Throwing back his head, the shaggy giant filled thehangar with his loudest roar as he saw Han Solo climb over hills of ice and snow andenter the chamber, followed closely by Princess Leia and an obviously nervousSee-Threepio.
　　Not far from the hangar, Imperial stormtroopers, their faces shielded by whitehelmets and white snowscreens, had begun moving down deserted corridors. Withthem strode their leader, the dark-robed figure who surveyed the shambles that hadbeen the Rebel base at Hoth. Darth Vader's black image stood out starkly against thewhite walls, ceiling, and floor. As he moved through the white catacombs, heregally stepped aside to avoid a falling section of ice ceiling. Then he continued onhis way with such quick strides that his troops had to hurry to keep up.
　　A low whine, rising in pitch, began to issue from the saucer-shaped freighter.Han Solo stood at the controls in the Millennium Falcon's cockpit, at last feeling athome. He quickly flipped one switch after another, expecting to see the board flashits familiar mosaic of light; but only some of the lights were working.
　　Chewbacca had also noticed something amiss and barked with concern as Leiaexamined a gauge that seemed to be malfunctioning.
　　"How's that, Chewie?" asked Han anxiously.
　　The Wookiee's bark was distinctly negative.
　　"Would it help if I got out and pushed?" snapped Princess Leia, who wasbeginning to wonder if it were the Corellian's spit that held the ship together.
　　"Don't worry, Your Holiness. I'll get it started."
　　See-Threepio clanked into the hold and, gesturing, tried to get Han's attention."Sir," the robot volunteered, "I was wondering if I might-" But his scanners readthe scowl on the face staring at him. "It can wait," he concluded.
　　Imperial stormtroopers, accompanied by the rapidly moving Darth Vader,thundered through the ice corridors of the Rebel base. Their pace quickened as theyrushed in the direction of the low whine coming from the ion engines. Vader's bodytensed slightly as, entering the hangar, he perceived the familiar saucer-shaped formof the Millennium Falcon.
　　Within the battered freighter ship, Han Solo and Chewbacca were tryingdesperately to get the craft moving.
　　"This bucket of bolts is never going to get us past that blockade," Princess Leiacomplained.
　　Han pretended that he didn't hear her. Instead, he checked the Falcon'scontrols and struggled to keep his patience even though his companion had soobviously lost hers. He flipped switches on the control console, ignoring theprincess's look of disdain. Clearly, she doubted that this assemblage of spare partsand welded hunks of scrap metal would hold together even if they did manage to getbeyond the blockade.
　　Han pushed a button on the intercom. "Chewie´come on!" Then, winking atLeia, he said, "This baby's still got a few surprise left in her."
　　"I'll be surprised if we start moving."
　　Before Han could make a carefully honed retort, the Falcon was jolted by a blastof Imperial laser fire that flashed outside the cockpit window. They could all see thesquad of Imperial stormtroopers rushing with drawn weapons into the far end of theice hangar. Han knew that the Falcon's dented hull might resist the force of thosehand weapons, but would be destroyed by the more powerful bazooka-shaped weaponthat two of the Imperial troopers were hurriedly setting up.
　　"Chewie!" Han yelled as he quickly strapped himself into his pilot's chair.Meanwhile, a somewhat subdued young woman seated herself in the navigator'schair.
　　Outside the Millennium Falcon, stormtroopers worked with military efficiency toset up their enormous gun. Behind them the hangar doors began to open. One ofthe Falcon's powerful laser weapons appeared from the hull and swung about, aimingdirectly at the stormtroopers.
　　Han moved urgently to block the Imperial soldier's efforts. Without hesitationhe released a deadly blast from the powerful laser weapon he had aimed at thestormtroopers. The explosion scattered their armored bodies all over the hangar.
　　Chewbacca dashed into the cockpit.
　　"We'll just have to switch over," Han announced, "and hope for the best."
　　The Wookiee hurled his hairy bulk into the copilot's seat as yet another laserblast erupted outside the window next to him. He yelled indignantly, then yankedback on the controls to bring the welcome roar of engine fire from deep inside theFalcon.
　　The Corellian grinned at the princess, a gleeful I-told-you-so gleam in his eyes.
　　"Someday," she said with mild disgust, "you're going to be wrong, and I justhope I'm there to see it."
　　Han just smiled, then turned to his copilot. "Punch it!" he shouted.
　　The huge freighter's engines roared. And everything behind the craft instantlymelted in the fiery exhaust billowing from its tailpiece Chewbacca furiously workedthe controls, watching out of the corner of his eyes the ice walls rushing past as thefreighter blasted away.
　　At the last moment, just before takeoff. Han caught a glimpse of additionalstormtroopers running into the hangar. In their wake strode a foreboding giant cladentirely in black. Then there was only the blur and the beckoning of billions of stars.
　　As the Millennium Falcon soared from the hangar, its flight was detected byCommander Luke Skywalker, who turned to smile at Wedge and his gunner. "Atleast Han got away." The three then trudged along to their waiting X-wing fighterships. When they finally reached them, they shook hands and moved off towardtheir separate vehicles.
　　"Good luck, Luke," Wedge said as they parted. "See you at the rendezvous."
　　Luke waved and began to walk toward his X-wing. Standing there amid themountains of ice and snow, he was overcome by a surge of loneliness. He feltdesperately alone now that even Han was gone. Worse than that, Princess Leia wasalso somewhere else; she might just as well be an entire universe away´
　　Then out of nowhere a familiar whistle greeted Luke.
　　"Artoo!" he exclaimed. "Is that you?"
　　Sitting snugly in the socket that had been installed for these helpful R2 units wasthe little barrel-shaped droid, his head peeking from the top of the ship. Artoo hadscanned the approaching figure and had whistled with relief when his computersinformed him it was Luke. The young commander was equally relieved toreencounter the robot that had accompanied him on so many of his previousadventures.
　　As he climbed into the cockpit and seated himself behind the controls, Lukecould hear the sound of Wedge's fighter roaring into the sky toward the Rebelrendezvous point. "Activate the power and stop worrying. We'll soon beairborne," Luke said in response to Artoo's nervous beeping.
　　His was the last Rebel ship to abandon what had, for a very brief time, been asecret outpost in the revolution against the tyranny of the Empire.
　　Darth Vader, a raven specter, quickly strode through the ruins of the Rebel icefortress, forcing his accompanying men into a brisk jog to keep up. As they movedthrough the corridors, Admiral Piett rushed up to overtake his master.
　　"Seventeen ships destroyed," he reported to the Dark Lord. "We don't knowhow many got away."
　　Without turning his head, Vader snarled through his mask, "The MillenniumFalcon?"
　　Piett paused a moment before replying. He would have preferred to avoid thatissue. "Our tracking scanners are on it now," he responded a bit fearfully.
　　Vader turned to face the admiral, his towering figure looming over the frightenedofficer. Piett felt a chill course through his veins, and when the Dark Lord spokeagain his voice conveyed an image of the dreadful fate that would be inflicted if hiscommands were not executed.
　　"I want that ship," he hissed.
　　The ice planet was rapidly shrinking to a point of dim light as the MillenniumFalcon sped into space. Soon that planet seemed nothing more than one of thebillions of light specks scattered throughout the black void.
　　But the Falcon was not alone in its escape into deep space. Rather, it wasfollowed by an Imperial fleet that included the Avenger Star Destroyer and ahalf-dozen TIE fighter. The fighters moved ahead of the huge, slower-movingDestroyer, and closed in on the fleeing Millennium Falcon.
　　Chewbacca howled over the roar of the Falcon's engines. The ship wasbeginning to lurch with the buffeting flak blasted at it by the fighters.
　　"I know, I know, I see them," Han shouted. It was taking everything he had tomaintain control of the ship.
　　"See what?" Leia asked.
　　Han pointed out the window at two very bright objects.
　　"Two more Star Destroyers, and they're heading right at us."
　　"I'm glad you said there was going to be no problem," she commented withmore than a touch of sarcasm, "or I'd be worried."
　　The ship rocked under the steady fire from the TIE fighters making it difficult forThreepio to maintain his balance as he returned to the cockpit. His metal skinbumped and banged against the walls as he approached Han. "Sir," he begantentatively, "I was wondering´"
　　Han Solo shot him a threatening glance. "Either shut up or shut down." Hanwarned the robot, who immediately did the former.
　　Still struggling with the controls to keep the Millennium Falcon on course, thepilot turned to Wookiee. "Chewie, how's the deflector shield holding up?"
　　The cockpit adjusted an overhead switch and barked a reply that Solo interpretedas positive.
　　"Good," said Han. "At sublight, they may be faster, but we can stillout-maneuver them. Hold on!" Suddenly the Corellian shifted his ship's course.
　　The two Imperial Star Destroyers had com almost within firing range of theFalcon as they loomed ahead; the pursuing TIE fighters and the Avenger were alsodangerously close. Han felt he had no choice but to take the Falcon into aninety-degree dive.
　　Leia and Chewbacca felt their stomachs leap into their throats as the Falconexecuted its steep dive. Poor Threepio quickly had to alter his inner mechanism if hewanted to remain on his metallic fee.
　　Han realized that his crew might think he was some kind of lunatic star jockey,pushing his ship on this madman's course. But he had a strategy in mind. With theFalcon no longer between them, the two Star Destroyers were now on a directcollision course with the Avenger. All he had to do was sit back and watch.
　　Alarms blared through the interiors of all three Star Destroyers. Theseponderously massive ships could not respond quickly enough to such emergencies.Sluggishly one of the Destroyers began to move to the left in its effort to avoidcollision with the Avenger. Unfortunately, as it veered, it brushed its companion ship,violently shaking up both spaceborne fortresses. The damaged Destroyers began todrift through space, while the Avenger continued in pursuit of the Millennium Falconand its obviously insane pilot.
　　Two down, Han thought. But there was still a quartet of TIE fighters tailing theFalcon, blasting at its stern with full laser fire, but Han thought he could outstrip them.The ship was buffeted violently by the fighters' laser blasts, forcing Leia to hold on ina desperate attempt to keep her seat.
　　"That slowed them down a bit!" Han exulted. "Chewie, stand by to make thejump to light-speed." There was not a moment to waste-the laser attack wasintense now, and the TIE fighters were almost on top of them.
　　"They're very close," Leia warned, finally able to speak.
　　Han looked at her with a wicked glint in his eyes. "Oh, yeah? Watch this."
　　He threw the hyperspace throttle forward, desperate to escape, but also eager toimpress the princess with both his own cleverness and his ship's fantastic power.Nothing happened! The stars that should by then have been mere blurs of light werestill. Something was definitely wrong.
　　"Watch what?" Leia asked impatiently.
　　Instead of responding, Han worked the light-speed controls a second time.Again, nothing. "I think we're in trouble," he muttered. His throat tightened. Heknew "trouble" was a gross understatement.
　　"If I may say so, sir," Threepio volunteered, "I noticed earlier that the entiremain para-light system seemed to have been damaged."
　　Chewbacca threw back his head and let out a loud and miserable wail.
　　"We're in trouble!" Han repeated.
　　All around them, the laser attack had increased violently. The MillenniumFalcon could only continue at its maximum sublight velocity as it moved deeper intospace, closely followed by a swarm of TIE fighters and one gigantic Imperial StarDestroyer.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  