  

The Empire Strikes Back
IX

　　Only one being in the entire universe could instill fear in the dark spirit of Darth Vader.As he stood, silent and alone in his dim chamber, the Dark Lord of Sith waited for avisit from his own dreaded master. 
　　As he waited, his Imperial Star Destroyer floated through a vast ocean of stars.No one on his ship would have dared disturb Darth Vader in his private cubicle. Butif they had, they might have detected a slight trembling in that black-cloaked frame.And there might even have been a hint of terror to be seen upon his visage, hadanyone been able to see through his concealing black breath mask.
　　But no one approached, and Vader remained motionless as he kept his lonely,patient vigil. Soon a strange electronic whine broke the dead silence of the room anda flickering light began to glimmer on the Dark Lord's cloak. Vader immediatelybowed deeply in homage to his royal master.
　　The visitor arrived in the form of a hologram that materialized before Vader andtowered above him. The three-dimensional figure was clad in simple robes and itsface was concealed behind an enormous hood.
　　When the hologram of the Galactic Emperor finally spoke, it did so with a voiceeven deeper than Vader's. The Emperor's presence was awesome enough, but thesound of his voice sent a thrill of terror coursing through Vader's powerful frame."You may rise, my servant," the Emperor commanded.
　　Immediately Vader straightened up. But he did not dare gaze into his master'sface, and instead cast his eyes down at his own black boots.
　　"What is thy bidding, my master?" Vader asked with all the solemnity of a priestattending his god.
　　"There is a grave disturbance in the Force," the Emperor said.
　　"I have felt it," the Dark Lord replied solemnly.
　　The Emperor emphasized the danger as he continued. "Our situation is mostprecarious. We have a new enemy who could bring about our destruction."
　　"Our destruction? Who?"
　　"The son of Skywalker. You must destroy him, or he will be our undoing."
　　Skywalker!
　　The thought was impossible. How could the Emperor be concerned with thisinsignificant youth?
　　"He's not a Jedi," Vader reasoned. "He's just a boy. Obi-wan could not havetaught him so much that-"
　　the Emperor broke in. "The Force is strong in him," he insisted. "He must bedestroyed."
　　The Dark Lord reflected for a moment. Perhaps there was another way to dealwith the boy, a way that might benefit the Imperial cause. "If he could be turned, hewould be a powerful ally," Vader suggested.
　　Silently the Emperor considered the possibility.
　　After a moment, he spoke again. "Yes´yes," he said thoughtfully. "Hewould be a great asset. Can it be done?"
　　For the first time in their meeting, Vader lifted his head to face his master directly."He will join us," he answered firmly, "or die, my master."
　　With that, the encounter had come to an end. Vader kneeled before the GalacticEmperor, who passed his hand over his obedient servant. In the next moment, theholographic image had completely disappeared, leaving Darth Vader alone toformulate what would be, perhaps, his most subtle plan of attack.
　　The indicator lights on the control panel cast an eerie glow through the quietcockpit of the Millennium Falcon. They softly lit Princess Leia's face as she sat inthe pilot's chair, thinking about Han. Deep in thought, she ran her hand along thecontrol panel in front of her. She knew something was churned up within her, butwasn't certain that she was willing to acknowledge it. And yet, could she deny it?
　　Suddenly her attention was attracted by a flurry of movement outside the cockpitwindow. A dark shape, at first too swift and too shadowy to identify, streakedtoward the Millennium Falcon. In an instant it had attached itself to the ship's frontwindow with something that looked like a soft suction cup. Cautiously Leia movedforward for a closer look at the black smudgelike shape. As she peered out thewindow, a set of large yellow eyes suddenly popped open and stared right at her.
　　Leia started in shock and stumbled backward into the pilot's seat. As she triedto compose herself, she heard the scurry of feet and an inhuman screech. Suddenlythe black shape and its yellow eyes disappeared into the darkness of the asteroid cave.
　　She caught her breath, leaped up out of the chair, and raced to the ship's hold.
　　The Falcon's crew was finishing its work on the ship's power system. As theyworked, the lights flickered weakly, then came on and stayed on brightly. Hanfinished reconnecting the wires, and began setting a floor panel back in place whilethe Wookiee watched See-Threepio complete his work at the control panel.
　　"Everything checks out here," Threepio reported. "If I might say so, I believethat should do it."
　　Just then, the princess rushed breathlessly into the hold.
　　"There's something out there!" Leia cried.
　　Han looked up from his work. "Where?"
　　"Outside," she said, "in the cave."
　　As she spoke, they heard a sharp banging against the ship's hull. Chewbaccalooked up and let out a loud bark of concern.
　　"Whatever it sounds like it's trying to get in," Threepio observed worriedly.
　　The captain began to move out of the hold. "I'm going to see what it is," heannounced.
　　"Are you crazy?" Leia looked at him in astonishment.
　　The banging was getting louder.
　　"Look, we just got this bucket going again," Han explained. "I'm not about tolet some varmint tear it apart."
　　Before Leia could protest, he had grabbed a breath mask off a supply rack andpulled it down over his head. As Han walked out, the Wookiee hurried up behindhim and grabbed his own face mask. Leia realized that, as part of the crew, she wasduty-bound to join then.
　　"If there's more than one," she told the captain, "you're going to need help."
　　Han looked at her affectionately as she removed a third breath mask and placed itover her lovely, but determined, face.
　　Then the three of them rushed out, leaving the protocol droid to complainpitifully to the empty hold: "But that leave me here all alone!"
　　The darkness outside the Millennium Falcon was thick and dank. It surroundedthe three figures as they carefully moved around their ship. With each step theyheard unsettling noises, squishing sounds, that echoes through the dripping cavern.
　　It was too dark to tell where the creature might be hiding. They movedcautiously, peering as well as they could into the deep gloom. Suddenly Chewbacca,who could see better in the dark than either his captain or the princess, emitted amuffled bark and pointed toward the thing that moved along the Falcon's hull.
　　A shapeless leathery mass scurried over the top of the ship, apparently startled bythe Wookiee's yelp. Han leveled his blaster at the creature and blasted the thing witha laser bolt. The black shape screeched, stumbled, then fell off the spaceship,landing with a thud at the princess's feet.
　　She leaned over to get a better look at the black mass. "Looks like some kindof Mynock," she told Han and Chewbacca.
　　Han glanced quickly around the dark tunnel. "There will be more of them," hepredicted. "They always travel in groups. And there's nothing they like better thanto attach themselves to ships. Just what we need right now!"
　　But Leia was more distracted by the consistency of the tunnel floor. The tunnelitself struck her as peculiar; the smell of the place was unlike that of any cave she hadever known. The floor was especially cold and seemed to cling her feet.
　　As she stamped her foot against the floor, she felt the ground give a bit beneathher heel. "This asteroid has the strangest consistency," she said. "Look at theground. It's not like rock at all."
　　Han knelt to inspect the floor more closely and noted how pliable it was. As hestudied the floor, he tried to make out how far it reached and to see the contours of thecave.
　　"There's an awful lot of moisture in here," he said. He stood up and aimed hishand blaster at the far side of the cave, then fired toward the sound of a screechingMynock in the distance; as soon as he shot the bolt, the entire cavern began to shakeand the ground began to buckle. "I was afraid of that," he shouted. "Let's get outof here!"
　　Chewbacca barked in agreement, and bolted toward the Millennium Falcon.Close behind him, Leia and Han rushed toward the ship, covering their faces as aswarm of Mynocks flew past them. They reached the Falcon and ran up theplatform into the ship. As soon as they were on board, Chewbacca closed the hatchafter them, careful that none of the Mynocks could slip inside.
　　"Chewie, fire her up!" Han yelled as he and Leia darted through the ship's hold."We're getting out of here!"
　　Chewbacca hurriedly lumbered to his seat in the cockpit, while Han rushed tocheck the scopes on the hold control panel.
　　Leia, running to keep up, warned, "They would spot us long before we could getup to speed."
　　Han didn't seem to hear her. He checked the controls, then turned to rush backto the cockpit. But as he passed her, his comment made it clear, he had heard everyword. "There's no time to discuss this in the committee."
　　And with that he was gone, racing to his pilot's chair, where he began workingthe engine throttles. The next minute the whine of the main engines resoundedthrough the ship.
　　But Leia hurried after him. "I am not a committee," she shouted indignantly.
　　It didn't appear that he heard her. The sudden cave-quake was beginning tosubside, but Han was determined to get his ship out-and out fast.
　　Leia began to strap herself into her seat.
　　"You can't make the jump to light-speed in the asteroid field," she called overthe engine roar.
　　Solo grinned at her over his shoulder. "Strap yourself in, sweetheart," he said,"we're taking off!"
　　"But the tremors have stopped!"
　　Han was not about to stop his ship now. Already the craft moved forward,quickly passing the craggy walls of the tunnel. Suddenly Chewbacca barked inhorror as he stared out the front windscreen.
　　Directly in front of them stood a jagged white row of stalactites and stalagmitescompletely surrounding the cave's entrance.
　　"I see it, Chewie," Han shouted. He pulled hard on the throttle, and theMillennium Falcon surged forward. "Hang on!"
　　"The cave is collapsing," Leia screamed as she saw the entrance ahead growsmaller.
　　"This is no cave."
　　"What?!"
　　Threepio began jabbering in terror. "Oh, my, no! We're doomed. Good-bye,Mistress Leia. Good-bye, Captain."
　　Leia's mouth dropped open as she stared at the rapidly approaching tunnelopening.
　　Han was right; they were not in a cave. As they came nearer the opening, itwas apparent that the white mineral formations were giant teeth. And it was veryapparent that, as they soared out of this giant mouth, those teeth were beginning toclose!
　　Chewbacca roared.
　　"Bank, Chewie!"
　　it was an impossible maneuver. But Chewbacca responded immediately andonce again accomplished the impossible. He rolled the Millennium Falcon steeplyon its side, tilting the ship as he accelerated it between two of those gleaming whitefangs. And not a second too soon, for just as the Falcon flew from that living tunnel,the jaws clamped shut.
　　The Falcon sped through the rocky crevice of the asteroid, pursued by a titanicspace slug. The enormous pink bulk didn't intend to lose its tasty meal and pusheditself out of its crater to swallow the escaping ship. But the monster was too slow.Within another moment the freighter had soared out, away from the slimy pursuer andinto space. As it did so, the ship plunged into yet another danger: The MillenniumFalcon had re-entered the deadly asteroid field.
　　Luke was panting, nearly out of breath in this, the latest of his endurance tests.His Jedi taskmaster had ordered him out on a marathon run through the dense growthof his planet's jungle. Not only had Yoda sent Luke on the exhausting run, but hehad invited himself along for the ride. As the Jedi-in-training puffed and sweated hisway on his rugged race, the little Jedi Master observed his progress from a pouchstrapped to Luke's back.
　　Yoda shook his head and muttered to himself disparagingly about the youth'slack of endurance.
　　By the time they returned to the clearing where Artoo-Detoo was patientlywaiting, Luke's exhaustion had nearly overcome him. As he stumbled into theclearing, Yoda had yet another test planned for him.
　　Before Luke had caught his breath, the little Jedi on his back tossed a metal barin front of Luke's eyes. In an instant Luke ignited his laser sword and swungfrantically at the bar. But he was not fast enough, and the bar fell-untouched-ontothe ground with a thud. Luke collapsed on the wet earth in complete exhaustion. "Ican't," he moaned, "´too tired."
　　Yoda, who showed no sign of sympathy, retorted, "It would be in seven pieces,were you a Jedi."
　　But Luke knew that he was not a Jedi-not yet, anyway. And the rigoroustraining program devised by Yoda had left him nearly out of breath. "I thought I wasin good shape," he gasped.
　　"Yes, but by what standard, ask I?" the little instructor quizzed. "Forget yourold measures. Unlearn, unlearn!"
　　Luke truly felt ready to unlearn all his old ways and willing to free himself tolearn all this Jedi Master had to teach. It was rigorous training, but as time passed,Luke's strength and abilities increased and even his skeptical little master began to seehope. But it was not easy.
　　Yoda spent long hours lecturing his student about the ways of the Jedi. As theysat under the trees near Yoda's little house, Luke listened intently to all the master'stales of lessons. And as Luke listened, Yoda chewed on his Gimer Stick, a shorttwig with three small branches at the far end.
　　And there were physical tests of all kinds. In particular, Luke was workinghard to perfect his leap. Once he felt ready to show Yoda his improvement. As themaster sat on a log next to a wide pond, he heard the loud rustling of someoneapproaching through the vegetation.
　　Suddenly Luke appeared on the other side of the pond, coming toward the waterat a run. As he approached the shore, he made a running leap toward Yoda, risinghigh above the water as he hurtled himself through the air. But he fell short of theother side and landed in the water with a loud splash, completely soaking Yoda.
　　Yoda's blue lips turned down in disappointment.
　　But Luke was not about to give up. He was determined to become a Jedi and,no matter how foolish he might feel in the attempt, would pass every test Yoda set forhim. So he didn't complain when Yoda told him to stand on his head. A bitawkwardly at first, Luke inverted his body and, after a few wobbly moments, wasstanding firmly on his hands. It seemed he had been in this position for hours, but itwas less difficult than it would have been before his training. His concentration hadimproved so much that he was able to maintain a perfect balance-even with Yodaperched on the soles of his feet.
　　But that was only part of the test. Yoda signaled Luke by tapping on his legwith his Gimer Stick. Slowly, carefully, and with full concentration, Luke raised onehand off the ground. His body wavered slightly with the weight shift-but Lukekept his balance, and, concentrating, started to lift a small rock in front of him. Butsuddenly a whistling and beeping R2 unit came rushing up to his youthful master.
　　Luke collapsed, and Yoda jumped clear of his falling body. Annoyed, theyoung Jedi student asked, "Oh, Artoo, what is it?"
　　Artoo-Detoo rolled about in frantic circles as he tried to communicate hismessage through a series of electronic chirps. Luke watched as the droid scooted tothe edge of the swamp. He hurried to follow and then saw what it was the littlerobot was trying to tell him.
　　Standing at the water's edge, Luke saw that all but the tip of the X-wing's nosehad disappeared beneath the water's surface.
　　"Oh, no," moaned Luke. "We'll never get it out now."
　　Yoda had joined them, and stamped his foot in irritation at Luke's remark. "Sosure are you?" Yoda scolded. "Tried have you? Always with you it can't be done.Hear you nothing that I say?" His little wrinkled face puckered with a furious scowl.
　　Luke glanced at his master, then looked doubtfully toward the sunken ship.
　　"Master," he said skeptically, "lifting rocks is one thing, but this is a littledifferent." Yoda was really angry now. "No! No different!" he shouted. "Thedifferences are in your mind. Throw them out! No longer of use are they to you."
　　Luke trusted his master. If Yoda said this could be done, then maybe he shouldtry. He looked at the downed X-wing and readied himself for maximumconcentration. "Okay," he said at last, "I'll give it a try."
　　Again he had spoken the wrong words. "No," Yoda said impatiently. "Try not.Do, do. Or do not. There is no try."
　　Luke close his eyes. He tried to envision the contours, the shape, to feel theweight of his X-wing fighter. And he concentrated on the movement it would makeas it rose from the murky waters.
　　As he concentrated, he began to hear the waters churn and gurgle, and then beginto bubble with the emerging nose of the X-wing. The tip of the fighter was slowlylifting from the water, and it hovered there for a moment, then sank back beneath thesurface with a loud splash.
　　Luke was drained and had to gasp for breath. "I can't," he said dejectedly."It's too big."
　　"Size has no meaning," Yoda insisted. "It matters not. Look at me. Judgeme by my size, do you?"
　　Luke, chastened, just shook his head.
　　"And well you shouldn't," the Jedi Master advised. "For my ally is the Force.And a powerful ally it is. Life creates it and make it grow. Its energy surrounds usand binds us. Luminous beings we are, not this crude matter," he said as he pinchedLuke's skin.
　　Yoda made a grand sweeping gesture to indicate the vastness of the universeabout him. "Feel it you must. Feel the flow. Feel the Force around you. Here,"he said, as he pointed, "between you and me and that tree and that rock."
　　While Yoda gave his explanation of the Force, Artoo spun his domed headaround, trying without success to register this "Force" on his scanners. He whistledand beeped in bafflement.
　　"Yes, everywhere," Yoda continued, ignoring the little droid, "waiting to be feltand used. Yes, even between this land the that ship!"
　　Then Yoda turned and looked at the swamp, and as he did the water began toswirl. Slowly, from the gently bubbling waters, the nose of the fighter appearedagain.
　　Luke gaped in astonishment as the X-wing gracefully rose from its watery tomband moved majestically toward the shore.
　　He silently vowed never to use the word "impossible" again. For there,standing on his tree root pedestal, was tiny Yoda, effortlessly gliding the ship from thewater onto the shore. It was a sight that Luke could scarcely believe. But he knewthat it was a potent example of Jedi mastery over the Force.
　　Artoo, equally astounded but not so philosophical, issued a series of loudwhistles, then bolted off to hide behind some giant roots.
　　The X-wing seemed to float onto the beach, then gently came to a stop.
　　Luke was humbled by the feat he had witnessed and approached Yoda in awe."I´" he began, dazzled. "I don't believe it."
　　"That," Yoda stated emphatically, "is why you fail."
　　Bewildered, Luke shook his head, wondering if he would ever rise to the stationof a Jedi.
　　Bounty hunters! Among the most reviled of the galaxy's inhabitants, this classof amoral moneygrubbers included members of every species. It was a repellentoccupation, and it often attracted repellent creatures to its fold. Some of thesecreatures had been summoned by Darth Vader and now stood with him on the bridgeof his Imperial Star Destroyer.
　　Admiral Piett observed this motley group from a distance as he stood with one ofVader's captains. They saw that the Dark Lord had invited a particularly bizarreassortment of fortune hunters, including Bossk, whose soft, baggy face gawked atVader with huge bloodshot orbs. Next to Bossk stood Zuckuss and Dengar, twohuman types, battle-scarred by innumerable, unspeakable adventures. A batteredand tarnished chrome-colored droid named IG-88 was also with the group, standingnext to the notorious Boba Fett. A human bounty hunter, Fett was known for hisextremely ruthless methods. He was dressed in a weapon-covered, armoredspacesuit, the kind worn by a group of evil warriors defeated by the Jedi Knightsduring the Clone Wars. A few braided scalps completed his unsavory image. Thevery sight of Boba Fett sent a shudder of revulsion through the admiral. "Bounty hunters!" Piett said with disdain. "Why should he bring them into this?The Rebels won't escape us."
　　Before the captain could reply, a sip's controller rushed up to the admiral."Sir," he said urgently, "we have a priority signal from the Star Destroyer Avenger."
　　Admiral Piett read the signal, then hurried to inform Darth Vader. As heapproached the group, Piett heard the last of Vader's instructions to them. "Therewill be a substantial reward for the one who finds the Millennium Falcon," he wassaying. "You are free to use any methods necessary, but I want proof. Nodisintegrations."
　　The Sith Lord stopped his briefing as Admiral Piett hurried to his side.
　　"My lord," the admiral whispered ecstatically, "we have them!"

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  