  

The Empire Strikes Back
XI

　　It was dawn on the gaseous Bespin planet.
　　As the Millennium Falcon began its approach through the planet's atmosphere, itsoared past several of Bespin's many moons. The planet itself glowed with the samesoft pink hue of dawn that tinted the hull of the powerful pirate starship. As the shipneared, it swerved to avoid a billowing canyon of clouds that swirled up around theplanet.
　　When Han Solo finally lowered his ship through the clouds, he and his crew gottheir first glimpse of the gaseous world of Bespin. And as they maneuvered throughthe clouds, they noticed that they were being followed by some kind of flying vehicle.Han recognized the craft as a twin-pod cloud car but was surprised when the carbegan to bank close to his freighter. The Falcon suddenly lurched as a round of laserfire struck its hull. No one on the Falcon had expected this kind of greeting.
　　The other craft transmitted a static-obscured message over the Falcon's radiosystem.
　　"No," Han snarled in reply, "I do not have a landing permit. My registrationis-"
　　But his words were drowned out by a loud crackle of radio static.
　　The twin-pod car was apparently not willing to accept static for a reply. Againit opened up fire on the Falcon, shaking and rattling the ship with each strike.
　　A clear warning voice came over the freighter's speakers: "Stand by. Anyaggressive move will bring about your destruction."
　　At this point Han had no intention of making any aggressive moves. Bespinwas their only hope of sanctuary, he didn't plan to alienate his prospective hosts.
　　"Rather touchy, aren't they?" the reactivated See-Threepio asked.
　　"I thought you knew these people," Leia chided, casting a suspicious look atHan.
　　"Well," the Corellian hedged, "it's been a while."
　　Chewbacca growled and barked, shaking his head meaningfully at Han.
　　"That was a long time ago," he answered sharply. "I'm sure he's forgotten allabout it." But he began to wonder if Lando had forgotten the past´
　　"Permission granted to land on Platform 327. Any deviation of flight patternwill bring about your-"
　　Angrily, Han switched off the radio. Why was he being put through thisharassment? He was coming here peacefully; wasn't Lando going to let bygones bybygones? Chewbacca grunted and glanced at Solo, who turned to Leia and herworried robot. "He'll help us," he said, trying to reassure them all. "We go wayback´really. Don't worry."
　　"Who's worried?" she lied unconvincingly.
　　By then they could clearly see the Cloud City of Bespin through the cockpitwindow. The city was immense and seemed to float in the clouds as it emergedthrough the white atmosphere. As the Millennium Falcon approached the city, itbecame evident that the expansive city structure was supported from below by a thinunipod. The base of this supporting stalk was a large round reactor that floatedthrough its billowing sea of clouds.
　　The Millennium Falcon dipped closer to the huge city and veered in the directionof its landing platforms, flying past the rising towers and spires that dotted the city'slandscape. In and about these structures cruised more of the twin-pod cloud cars,gliding effortlessly through the mists.
　　Han gently brought the Falcon in to land on Platform 327; and as the ship's ionengines whined to a stop, the captain and his crew could see the welcoming partymoving toward the landing platform with weapons drawn. Like any cross-section ofcitizenry of Cloud City, this group included aliens, droids, and humans of all racesand description. One of these humans was the group's leader, Lando Calrissian.
　　Lando, a handsome black man perhaps the same age as Solo, was clad in elegantgray pants, blue shirt, and a flowing blue cape. He stood, unsmiling, on LandingPlatform 327, waiting for the Falcon's crew to disembark.
　　Han Solo and Princess Leia appeared at the open door of their ship, with blastersdrawn. Standing behind them was the giant Wookiee, his gun in hand and abandoleer of ammunition packs slung over his left shoulder.
　　Han didn't speak but quietly surveyed the menacing welcoming party that wasmarching across the platform toward them. An early morning wind began to sweepalong the ground, making Lando's cloak fly up behind him like enormous deep bluewings.
　　"I don't like this," Leia whispered to Han.
　　He didn't much like it either, but he wasn't going to let the princess know that."It'll be all right," he said quietly. "Trust me." Then, cautioning her, he added,"But keep your eyes open. Wait here."
　　Han and Chewbacca left Leia guarding the Falcon and they walked down theramp to face Calrissian and his motley army. The two parties moved toward eachother until Han and Calrissian stopped, three meters apart, the face each other. For along moment, each one eyed the other silently.
　　Finally Calrissian spoke, shaking his head and squinting at Han. "Why, youslimy, double-crossing, no-good swindler." He said grimly.
　　"I can explain everything, ol' buddy," Han said quickly, "if you'll just listen."
　　Still unsmiling, Lando surprised alien and human alike when he said, "Glad tosee you."
　　Han lifted an eyebrow skeptically. "No hard feelings?"
　　"Are you kidding?" Lando asked coolly.
　　Han was becoming nervous. Had he been forgiven or not? The guard andaides still had not lowered their weapons, and Lando's attitude was mystifying.Trying to conceal his worry, Han remarked gallantly, "I always said you were agentleman."
　　With that, the other man broke into a grin. "I'll bet," he chuckled.
　　Han laughed in relief, as the two old friends at last embraced each other like thelong-lost accomplices they were.
　　Lando waved at the Wookiee, standing behind his boss. "How you doing,Chewbacca?" he asked amiably. "Still wasting your time with this clown, eh?"
　　The Wookiee growled a reserved greeting.
　　Calrissian was not certain what to make of that growl. "Right," he half-smiled,looking uncomfortable. But his attention was distracted from this shaggy mass ofmuscle and hair when he saw Leia beginning to walk down the ramp. This lovelyvision was followed closely by her protocol droid, who cautiously glanced around asthey walked toward Lando and Ha.
　　"Hello! What have we here?" Calrissian welcomed her admiringly. "I amLando Calrissian, administrator of this facility. And who might you be?"
　　The princess remained coolly polite. "You may call me Leia," she replied.
　　Lando bowed formally and gently kissed the princess's hand.
　　"And I," her robot companion said, introducing himself to the administrator, "amSee-Threepio, human-cyborg relations, at your-"
　　But before Threepio could finish his little speech, Han draped one arm aboutLando's shoulder and steered him away from the princess. "She's traveling with me,Lando," he advised his old friend, "and I don't intend to gamble her away. So youmight as well forget she exists."
　　Lando looked longingly over his shoulder as he and Han began to walk acrossthe landing platform, followed by Leia, Threepio and Chewbacca. "That won't beeasy, my friend," Lando said regretfully.
　　Then he turned to Han. "What bring you here anyway?"
　　"Repairs."
　　Mock panic spread across Lando's face. "What have you done to my ship?"
　　Grinning, Han glanced back at Leia. "Lando used to own the Falcon," heexplained. "And he sometimes forgets that he lost her fair and square."
　　Lando shrugged as he conceded to Han's boastful claim. "That ship saved mylife more than a few times. It's the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. What'swrong with her?"
　　"Hyperdrive."
　　"I'll have my people get to work on it right away," Lando said. "I hate thethought of the Millennium Falcon without her heart."
　　The group crossed the narrow bridge that joined the landing area to the city-andwere instantly dazzled by its beauty. They saw numerous small plazas ringed bysmooth-edged towers and spires and buildings. The structures that constituted CloudCity's business and residential sections were gleaming white, shining brightly in themorning sun. Numerous alien races made up the city's populace and many of thesecitizens leisurely walked through the spacious streets alongside the Falcon visitors.
　　"How's your mining operation going?" Han asked Lando.
　　"Not as well as I'd like," Calrissian answered. "We're a small outpost and notvery self-sufficient. I've had supply problems of every kind and´" Theadministrator noticed Han's amused grin. "What's so funny?"
　　"Nothing." Then Han chuckled. "I never would have guessed that underneaththat wild schemer I knew was a responsible leader and businessman." Grudgingly,Han had to admit that he was impressed. "You wear it well."
　　Lando looked at his old friend reflectively. "Seeing you sure brings back a fewmemories." He shook his head, smiling. "Yes, I'm responsible these days. It's aprice of success. And you know what, Han? You were right all along. It'soverrated."
　　Both burst out laughing, causing a head or two to turn as the group movedthrough the city walkways.
　　See-Threepio lagged a bit behind, fascinated by the bustling alien crowds in theCloud City streets, the floating cars, the fabulous, fanciful buildings. He turned hishead back and forth, trying to register it all in his computer circuits.
　　As the golden droid gawked at the new sights, he passed a door facing thewalkway. Hearing it open, he turned to see a silver Threepio unit emerging andstopped to watch the other robot move away. While Threepio paused there, he hearda muffled beeping and whistling coming from behind the door.
　　He peeked in and saw a familiar-looking droid sitting in the anteroom. "Oh, anR2 unit!" he chirped in delight. "I'd almost forgotten what they sound like."
　　Threepio moved through the doorway and walked into the room. Instantly hesensed that he and the R2 unit were not alone. He threw his golden arms up insurprise, the expression of wonder on his gilded faceplate frozen in place. "Oh,my!" he exclaimed. "Those look like-"
　　As he spoke, a rocketing laser bolt crashed into his metal chest, sending himflying in twenty directions around the room. His bronzed arms and legs crashedagainst the walls and settled in a smoldering heap with the rest of his mechanicalbody.
　　Behind him, the door slammed shut.
　　Some distance away, Lando guided the small group into his hall of offices,pointing out objects of interest as they moved through the white corridors. None ofthem had noticed Threepio's absence as they walked along, discussing life in Bespin.
　　But Chewbacca suddenly stopped and curiously sniffed the air as he lookedbehind him. Then he shrugged his huge shoulders and continued to follow theothers.
　　Luke was perfectly calm. Even his present position did not make him feel tenseor strained or unsure, or any of the negative things he used to feel when he firstattempted this feat. He stood, perfectly balanced on one hand. He knew the Forcewas with him.
　　His patient master, Yoda, sat calmly on the soles of Luke's upturned feet. Lukeconcentrated serenely on his task and all at once he lifted four fingers from the ground.His balance undisturbed, he held his upside-down position-on one thumb.
　　Luke's determination had made him a quick study. He was eager to learn andwas undaunted by the tests Yoda had devised for him. And now he felt confidentthat when he finally left this planet, it would be as a full-fledged Jedi Knight preparedto fight only for the noblest of causes.
　　Luke was rapidly growing stronger with the Force and, indeed, wasaccomplishing miracles. Yoda grew more pleased with his apprentice's progress.Once, while Yoda stood watching nearby, Luke used the Force to lift two largeequipment cases and suspend them in midair. Yoda was pleased, but noticedArtoo-Detoo observing this apparent impossibility and emitting electronic beeps ofdisbelief. The Jedi Master raised his hand and, with the Force, lifted the little droidoff the ground.
　　Artoo hovered, his baffled internal circuits and sensors trying to detect theunseen power that held him suspended in the air. And suddenly the invisible handplayed still another joke on him: While hanging in midair, the little robot was abruptlyturned upside down. His white legs kicked desperately and his dome head spunhelplessly around. When Yoda finally lowered his hand, the droid, along with twosupply cases, began to drop. But only the boxes smashed against the ground.Artoo remained suspended in space.
　　Turning his head, Artoo perceived his young master, standing with handextended, preventing Artoo from a fatal tumble.
　　Yoda shook his head, impressed by his student's quick thinking and by hiscontrol.
　　Yoda sprang onto Luke's arm and the two of them turned back toward the house.But they had forgotten something: Artoo-Detoo was still hanging in the air, beepingand whistling frantically, trying to get their attention. Yoda was merely playinganother joke on the fretful droid, and as Yoda and Luke strolled away, Artoo heard theJedi Master's bell-like laugh float in gay peals behind him as the droid slowly loweredto the ground.
　　Some time later, as dusk crept through the dense foliage of the bog, Artoo wascleaning the X-wing's hull. Through a hose that ran from the pond to an orifice inhis side, the robot sprayed down the ship with a powerful stream of water. Andwhile he worked, Luke and Yoda sat in the clearing, Luke's eyes closed inconcentration.
　　"Be calm," Yoda told him. "Through the Force things you will see: otherplaces, other thoughts, the future, the past, old friends long gone."
　　Luke was losing himself as he concentrated on Yoda's words. He wasbecoming unaware of his body and let his consciousness drift with the words of hismaster. "My mind fills with so many images."
　　"Control, control you must learn of what you see," the Jedi Master instructed."Not easy, not fast."
　　Luke closed his eyes, relaxed, and began to free his mind, began to control theimages. At last there was something, not clear at first, but something white,amorphous. Gradually the image cleared. It seemed to be that of a city, a city thatperhaps floated in a billowing white sea.
　　"I see a city in the clouds," he finally said.
　　"Bespin," Yoda identified it. "I see it, too. Friends you have there, heh?Concentrate and see them you will."
　　Luke's concentration intensified. And the city in the clouds became clearer.As he concentrated he was able to see forms, familiar forms of people he knew.
　　"I see them!" Luke exclaimed, his eyes still shut. Then a sudden agony, ofbody and spirit, took hold of him. "They're in pain. They're suffering."
　　"It is the future you see," the voice of Yoda explained.
　　The future, Luke thought. Then the pain he had felt had not yet been inflictedon his friends. So perhaps the future was not unchangeable.
　　"Will they die?" he asked his master.
　　Yoda shook his head and shrugged gently. "Difficult to see. Always inmotion is the future."
　　Luke opened his eyes again. He stood up and quickly began to gather hisequipment. "They're my friends," he said, guessing that the Jedi Master might try todissuade him from doing what he knew he must.
　　"And therefore," Yoda added, "decide you must how to serve them best. If youleave now, help them you could. But you would destroy all for which they havefought and suffered."
　　His words stopped Luke cold. The youth sank to the ground, feeling a shroudof gloom envelop him. Could he really destroy everything he had worked for andpossibly also destroy his friends? But how could he not try to save them?
　　Artoo perceived his master's despair and rolled over to stand by him and providewhat comfort he could.
　　Chewbacca, who had grown concerned about See-Threepio, slipped away fromHan Solo and the others and began hunting for the missing droid. All he had tofollow were his keen Wookiee instincts as he wandered through the unfamiliar whitepassageways and corridors of Bespin.
　　Following his senses, Chewbacca finally came upon an enormous room in acorridor on the outside of the Cloud City. He approached the entrance to the roomand heard the clamor of metallic object clattering together. Along with the clanging,he heard the low grunting of creatures he had never encountered before.
　　The room he had found was a Cloud City junk room-the repository of all thecity's broken machines and other discarded metal junk.
　　Standing amid the scattered pieces of metal and tangled wire were four hoglikecreatures. White hair grew thickly on their heads and partially covered theirwrinkled piggish faces. The humanoid beasts-called Ugnaughts on thisplanet-were busy separating the junked pieces of metal and casting them into a pit ofmolten metal.
　　Chewbacca entered the room and saw that one of the Ugnaught held afamiliar-looking piece of golden metal.
　　The piglike creature was already raising his arm to toss the severed metal leg intothe sizzling pit when Chewbacca roared at him, barking desperately. The Ugnaughtdropped the leg and ran, to cower in terror with his fellows.
　　The Wookiee grabbed the metal leg and inspected it closely. He hadn't beenmistaken. And as he growled angrily at the huddled Ugnaughts, they shivered andgrunted like a pack of frightened pigs.
　　Sunlight streamed into the circular lounge of the apartments assigned to HanSolo and his group. The lounge was white and furnished simple, with a couch and atable and little any anything else. Each of the four sliding doors, placed along thecircular wall, led to an adjoining apartment.
　　Han leaned out the lounge's large bay window to take in the panoramic view ofCloud City. The sight was breathtaking, even to such a jaded star jockey. Hewatched the flying cloud cars weave between the towering buildings, then lookeddown to see the people moving through the networks of streets below. The cool,clean air swept against his face, and, at least for the present, he felt as if he didn'thave a care in all the universe.
　　A door behind him opened, and he turned to see Princess Leia standing in theentranceway to her apartment. She was stunning. Dressed in red with acloud-white cloak flowing to the floor, Leia looked more beautiful than Han had everseen her. Her long, dark hair was tied with ribbons and it softly framed her oval face.And she was looking at him, smiling at his astounded expression.
　　"What are you staring at?" she asked, beginning to blush.
　　"Who's staring?"
　　"You look silly," she said, laughing.
　　"You look great."
　　Leia looked away in embarrassment. "Has Threepio turned up yet?" she asked,trying to change the subject.
　　Solo was taken off guard. "Huh? Oh. Chewie went to look for him. He'sbeen gone too long just to be lost." He patted the softly cushioned sofa. "Comeover here," he beckoned. "I want to check this out."
　　She thought about his invitation for a moment, then walked over and sat next tohim on the couch. Han was overjoyed at her apparent compliance and leaned over toput his arm around her. But just before he had quite succeeded, she spoke again. "Ihope Luke made it to the fleet all right."
　　"Luke!" He was becoming exasperated. How hard did he have to play at thisgame of hard-to-get? It was her game, and her rules-but he had chosen to play.She was too lovely to resist. "I'm sure he's fine," Han said, soothingly. "Probablysitting around wondering what we're doing right now."
　　He moved closer and put his arm around her shoulders, pulling her closer to him.She gazed at him invitingly, and he moved to kiss her-
　　Just then one of the doors zapped open. Chewbacca lumbered in carrying alarge packing case filled with disturbingly familiar metal parts-the remains, inbronzed bits and pieces, of See-Threepio. The Wookiee dropped the case on thetable. Gesturing toward Han, he barked and growled in distress.
　　"What happened?" Leia asked, moving closer to inspect the pile of disjointedpart.
　　"He found Threepio in a junk room."
　　Leia gasped. "What a mass! Chewie, do you think you can repair him?"
　　Chewbacca studied the collection of robot parts, then, looking back at theprincess, shrugged his shoulders howled. It looked to him like an impossible job.
　　"Why don't we just turn him over to Lando to fix?" Han suggested.
　　"No thanks," Leia answered, with a cold look in her eyes. "Something's wronghere. Your friend Lando is very charming, but I don't trust him."
　　"Well, I do trust him," Han argued, defending his host. "Listen, sweetheart, I'mnot going to have you accusing my friend of-"
　　But he was interrupted by a buzz as a door slid open, and Lando Calrissianentered the lounge. Smiling cordially, he walked toward the small group. "Sorry,am I interrupting anything?"
　　"Not really," the princess said distantly.
　　"My dear," Lando said, ignoring her coldness toward him, "your beauty isunparalleled. Truly you belong here with us among the clouds."
　　She smiled icily. "Thanks."
　　"Would you care to join me for a little refreshment?"
　　Han had to admit that he was a bit hungry. But for some reason he could notquite name, he felt a wave of suspicion about his friend flood over him. He didn'tremember Calrissian being quite so polite, quite so smooth. Perhaps Leia wascorrect in her suspicions´
　　His thoughts were interrupted by Chewbacca's enthusiastic bark at the mentionof food. The big Wookiee was licking his lips at the prospect of a hearty meal.
　　"Everyone's invited, of course," Lando said.
　　Leia took Lando's proffered arm and, as the group moved toward the door,Calrissian glimpsed the box of golden robot parts. "Having problems with yourdroid?" he asked.
　　Han and Leia exchanged a quick glance. If Han was going to ask for Lando'shelp in repairing the droid, now was the moment. "An accident," he grunted."Nothing we can't handle."
　　They left the lounge, leaving behind them the shattered remains of the protocoldroid.
　　The group strolled through the long white corridors and Leia walked betweenHan and Lando. Han wasn't at all certain he liked the prospect of competing withLando for Leia's affections-especially under the circumstance. But they weredependent on Lando's good graces now. They had no other choice.
　　Joining them as they walked was Lando's personal aide, a tall bald man dressedin a gray jacket with ballooning yellow sleeves. The aide wore a radio device thatwrapped around the back of his head and covered both his ears. He walked alongwith Chewbacca a short distance behind Han, Leia, and Lando, and as they walkedtoward Lando's dining hall, the administrator described the status of his planet'sgovernment.
　　"So you see," Lando explained, "we are a free station and do not fall under thejurisdiction of the Empire."
　　"You're part of the mining guild then?" Leia asked.
　　"Not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be noticed. Much of ourtrade is, well´unofficial."
　　They stepped onto a veranda that overlooked the spiraled top of Cloud City.From here they saw several flying cloud cars gracefully swooping around thebeautiful spired buildings of the city. It was a spectacular view, and the visitors werevery impressed.
　　"It's a lovely outpost," Leia marveled.
　　"Yes, we're proud of it," Lando replied. "You'll find the air quite specialhere´very simulating." He smiled at Leia meaningfully. "You could grow to likeit."
　　Han didn't miss Lando's flirtatious glance-and he didn't like it, either. "Wedon't plan on staying that long," he said brusquely.
　　Leia raised an eyebrow and glanced mischievously at the now-fuming Han Solo."I find it most relaxing."
　　Lando chuckled, and led them from the veranda. They approached the dininghall with its massive closed doors and, as they paused in front of them, Chewbaccalifted his head and sniffed the air curiously. He turned and barked urgently at Han.
　　"Not now, Chewie," Han reproved, turning to Calrissian. "Lando, aren't youafraid the Empire might eventually discover this little operation and shut you down?"
　　"That's always been the danger," the administrator replied. "It's loomed like ashadow over everything we've built here. But circumstances have developed whichwill insure security. You see, I've made a deal that will keep the Empire out of hereforever."
　　With that the mighty door slid open-and immediately Han understood just whatthat "deal" must have involved. At the far end of the huge banquet table stood thebounty hunter Boba Fett.
　　Fett stood next to a chair that held the black essence of evil itself-Darth Vader.Slowly the Dark Lord rose to his full, menacing two-meter height.
　　Han shot his meanest look at Lando.
　　"Sorry, friend," Lando said, sounding mildly apologetic. "I had no choice.They arrived right before you did."
　　"I'm sorry, too," Han snapped. In that instant, he cleared his blaster from itsholster, aimed it directly at the figure in black, and began to pump laser bolts Vader'sway.
　　But the man who may have been the fastest draw in the galaxy was not fastenough to surprise Vader. Before those bolts zipped halfway across the table, theDark Lord had lifted a gauntlet-protected hand and effortlessly deflected them so theyexploded against the wall in a harmless spray of flying white shards.
　　Astounded by what he had just seen, Han tried firing again. But before hecould discharge another laser blast, something-something unseen yet incrediblystrong-yanked the weapon from his hand and sent it flying into Vader's grip. Theraven figure calmly placed the weapon on top of the dining table.
　　Hissing through his obsidian mask, the Dark Lord addressed his would-beassailant. "We would be honored if you joined us."
　　Artoo-Detoo felt the rain plunking on top of his metal dome as he trudgedthrough the muddy puddles of the bog. He was headed for the sanctuary of Yoda'slittle hut, and soon his optical sensors picked up the golden glow shining through itswindows. As he neared the inviting house, he felt a robot's relief that at last hewould get out of this annoying, persistent rain.
　　But when he tried to pass through the entrance he discovered that his inflexibledroid body just could not get in; he tried from one angle, then from another. At lastthe perception that he was simply the wrong shape to get in seeped into his computermind.
　　He could scarcely believe his sensors. As he peered into the house, he scanneda busy figure, bustling about the kitchen, stirring steaming pots, chopping this andthat, running back and forth. But the figure in Yoda's tiny kitchen, doing Yoda'skitchen tasks, was not the Jedi Master-but his apprentice.
　　Yoda, it appeared from Artoo's scan, was simply sitting back observing hisyoung pupil from the adjacent room, and quietly smiling. Then suddenly, in themidst of all his kitchen activity, Luke paused, as if a painful vision had appearedbefore him.
　　Yoda noticed Luke's troubled look. As he watched his student, three glow-ballseekers appeared from behind Yoda and noiselessly shot through the air to attack theyoung Jedi from behind. Instantly Luke turned to face them, a pot lid in one handand a spoon in the other.
　　The seekers sent one rocketing bolt after another directly at Luke. But, withastounding skill, he warded off every one. He knocked one of the seekers toward theopen door where Artoo stood watching his master's performance. But the faithfuldroid saw the shining ball too late to avoid the bolt it shot at him. The impactknocked the shrieking robot onto the ground with a clunk that nearly shook loose hiselectronic insides.
　　Later that evening, after the student had successfully passed a number of histeacher's tests, a weary Luke Skywalker finally fell asleep on the tossing and softlymoaning. His concerned droid stood by him, reaching out an extension arm andcovering Luke with the blanket that had slipped halfway off. But when Artoo startedto roll away, Luke began to groan and shudder as if in the grip of some horriblenightmare.
　　Inside the house, Yoda heard the groans and hurried to his doorway.
　　Luke awoke from his sleep with a start. Dazed, he looked about him, then sawhis teacher, worriedly watching him from his house. "I can't keep the vision out ofmy head," Luke told Yoda. "My friends´they're in trouble´and I feel that-"
　　"Luke, you must not go," Yoda warned.
　　"But Han and Leia will die if I don't."
　　"You don't know that." It was the whispered voice of Ben, who was beginningto materialize before them. The dark-robed figure stood, a shimmering image, andtold Luke, "Even Yoda cannot see their fate."
　　But Luke was deeply worried about his friends and was determined to dosomething. "I can help them!" he insisted.
　　"You're not ready yet," Ben said gently. "You still have much to learn."
　　"I feel the Force," Luke said.
　　"But you cannot control it. This is a dangerous stage for you, Luke. You arenow most susceptible to the temptations of the dark side."
　　"Yes, yes," Yoda added. "To Obi-wan you listen, young one. The tree.Remember your failure at the tree! Heh?"
　　Painfully, Luke remembered, though he felt he had gained a great deal ofstrength and understanding in that experience. "I've learned much since then. AndI'll return to finish. I promise that, master."
　　"You underestimate the Emperor," Ben told him gravely. "It is you he wants.That is why your friends suffer."
　　"And that," Luke said, "is why I must go."
　　Kenobi was firm. "I will not lose you to the Emperor as I once lost Vader."
　　"You won't."
　　"Only a fully trained Jedi Knight, with the Force as his ally, will conquer Vaderand his Emperor," Ben emphasized. "If you end your training now, if you choosethe quick and easy path-as Vader did-you will become an agent of evil, and thegalaxy will be plunged deeper into the abyss of hate and despair."
　　"Stopped they must be," Yoda interjected. "Do you hear? On this alldepends."
　　"You are the last Jedi, Luke. You are our only hope. Be patient."
　　"And sacrifice Han and Leia?" the youth asked incredulously.
　　"If you honor what they fight for," Yoda said, pausing for a long moment,"´yes!"
　　Great anguish overcame Luke. He wasn't certain that he could reconcile theadvice of these two great mentors with his own feelings. His friends were in terribledanger, and of course he must save them. But his teachers thought he was not ready,that he might be too vulnerable to the powerful Vader and his Emperor, that he mightbring harm to his friends and himself-and possibly be lost forever on the path ofevil.
　　Yet how could he fear these abstract things when Han and Leia were real andwere suffering? How could he permit himself to fear possible danger to himselfwhen his friends were presently in real danger of death?
　　There was no longer any question in his mind as to what he had to do.
　　It was dusk the next day on the bog planet when Artoo-Detoo settled himself intohis nook behind the cockpit of Luke's X-wing fighter.
　　Yoda stood on one of the storage cases, watching Luke load the cases one by oneinto the fighter's underbelly as he worked in the glow of the X-wing's lights.
　　"I cannot protect you, Luke," the voice of Ben Kenobi came, as his robed figuretook solid form. "If you choose to face Vader, you will do it alone. Once you'vemade this decision, I cannot interfere."
　　"I understand," Luke replied calmly. Then, turning to his droid, he said, "Artoo,fire up the power converters."
　　Artoo, who had already unfastened the power couplings on the ship, whistledhappily, grateful to be leaving this dismal bog world, which was certainly no place fora droid.
　　"Luke," Ben advised, "use the Force only for knowledge and for defense, not asa weapon. Don't give in to hate or anger. They lead the way to the dark side."
　　Luke nodded, only half-listening. His mind was on the long journey and on thedifficult tasks ahead of him. He must save his friends, whose lives were in dangerbecause of him. He climbed into the cockpit, then looked at his little Jedi Master.
　　Yoda was deeply concerned about his apprentice. "Strong is Vader," he warnedominously. "Clouded is your fate. Mind what you have learned. Noticeeverything, everything! It can save you."
　　"I will, Master Yoda," Luke assured him. "I will and I'll be back to finish whatI have begun. I give you my word!"
　　Artoo closed the cockpit and Luke started the engines.
　　Yoda and Obi-wan Kenobi watched the X-wing gear its engines and begin tomove away for takeoff.
　　"Told you, I did," Yoda said sorrowfully, as the sleek fighter craft began to liftinto the misty heavens. "Reckless is he. Now things are going to worse."
　　"That boy is our last hope," Ben Kenobi said, his voice heavy with emotion.
　　"No," Kenobi's former teacher corrected with a knowing gleam in his large eyes,"there is another."
　　Yoda lifted his head toward the darkening sky where Luke's ship was already abarely distinguishable point of light among the flickering stars.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  