  

The Empire Strikes Back
XII

　　Chewbacca thought he was going mad!
　　The prison cell was flooded with hot, blinding light that seared his sensitiveWookiee eyes. Not even his huge hands and hairy arms, thrust up over his face,could entirely protect him from the glare. And to add to his misery, a high-pitchedwhistle blared into the cubicle, tormenting his keen sense of hearing. He roared inagony, but his guttural roars were drowned out by the piercing, screeching noise.
　　The Wookiee paced back and forth within the confines of the cell. Moaningpitifully, he pounded at the thick walls in desperation, wanting someone, anyone, tocome and free him. While he pounded, the whistle that had nearly exploded hiseardrums suddenly stopped and the deluge of light flickered and went out.
　　Chewbacca staggered back a step with the sudden absence of torture, and thenmoved to one of the cell walls to try to detect whether anyone was approaching torelease him. But the thick walls revealed nothing and, maddened to a fury,Chewbacca slammed a giant fist against the wall.
　　But the wall stood undamaged and as impenetrable as before, and Chewbaccarealized it would take more than Wookiee brute strength to topple it.
　　Despairing of his chances of breaking through the cell to freedom, Chewbaccashuffled toward the bed, where the box of 3PO parts had been placed.
　　Idly at first, and then with more interest, the Wookiee began poking through thebox. It dawned jointed droid. Not only would doing so pass the time, but it mightbe helpful to have Threepio back in working condition.
　　He picked up the golden head and gazed into its darkened eyes. He held thehead and barked a few soliloquizing words as if to prepare the robot for the joy ofre-entry into activity-or for the disappointment of Chewbacca's possible failure toreconstruct him properly.
　　Then, quite delicately for a creature of his size and strength, the giant Wookieeplaced the staring head atop the bronzed torso. Tentatively he began experimentingwith Threepio's tangle of wires and circuits. His mechanical skills had previouslyonly been tested in repairs on the Millennium Falcon, so he wasn't at all certain hecould complete the delicate task. Chewbacca juggled and fiddled with the wires,baffled by this intricate mechanism, when suddenly Threepio's eyes lit up.
　　A whine came from inside the robot. It sounded vaguely like Threepio'snormal voice, but was so low and so slow that the words were unintelligible.
　　"Imm-peeeeer-eee-all-storr-mmm-trppp´"
　　bewildered, Chewbacca scratched his furry head and studied the broken robotintently. An idea came to him, and he tried switching one wire to another plug.Instantly Threepio began speaking in his normal voice. What he had to say soundedlike words from a bad dream.
　　"Chewbacca!" the head of See-Threepio cried. "Watch out, there are Imperialstormtroopers hidden in-" He paused, as if reliving the whole traumatic experience,and then he cried, "Oh, no! I've been shot!"
　　Chewbacca shook his head in sympathy. All he could do at this point was try toput the rest of See-Threepio back together again.
　　Quite possibly it was the first time Han Solo had ever screamed. Never had heendured such excruciating torment. He was strapped to a platform that angled awayfrom the floor at approximately forty-five degrees. While he was strapped there,electric currents of searing power shot through his body at short intervals, each joltmore painfully powerful than the last. He squirmed to free himself but his agonywas so severe that it was all he could do just to remain conscious.
　　Standing near the torture rack, Darth Vader silently watched Han Solo's ordeal.Seeming neither pleased nor displeased, he watched until he had seen enough, andthen the Dark Lord turned his back on the writhing figure and left the cell, the doorsliding behind him to muffle Solo's anguished screams.
　　Outside the torture chamber, Boba Fett waited for Lord Vader with LandoCalrissian and the administrator's aide.
　　With obvious disdain, Vader turned to Fett. "Bounty hunter," Vader addressedthe man in the black-marked silver helmet, "if you are waiting for your reward, youwill wait until I have Skywalker."
　　The self-assured Boba Fett appeared unruffled by this news. "I am in no hurry,Lord Vader. My concern is that Captain Solo not be damaged. The reward fromJabba the Hut is double if he's alive."
　　"His pain is considerable, bounty hunter," Vader hissed, "but he will not beharmed."
　　"What about Leia and the Wookiee?" Lando asked with some concern.
　　"You will find them well enough," Vader answered. "But," he added withunmistakable finality, "they must never again leave this city."
　　"That was never a condition of our agreement," Calrissian argued. "Nor wasgiving Han to this bounty hunter."
　　"Perhaps you think you're being treated unfairly," Vader said sarcastically.
　　"No," Lando said, glancing at his aide.
　　"Good," Vader continued, adding a veiled threat. "It would be most unfortunateif I had to leave a permanent garrison here."
　　Bowing his head reverently, Lando Calrissian waited until Darth Vader hadturned and swept into a waiting elevator with the silver-armored bounty hunter.Then, taking his aide with him, the administrator of Cloud City strode swiftly down awhite-walled corridor.
　　"This deal's becoming worse all the time," Lando complained.
　　"Maybe you should have tried to negotiate with him," the aide suggested.
　　Lando looked at his aide grimly. He was beginning to realize that the deal withDarth Vader was giving nothing to him. And, beyond that, it was bringing harm topeople he might have called friends. Finally, he said, low enough not to be heard byany of Vader's spies, "I've got a bad feeling about this."
　　See-Threepio was at last beginning to feel something like his old self.
　　The Wookiee had been busily working on reconnecting the droid's many wiresand internal circuits, and just now was beginning to figure out how to attach the limb.So far he had reattached the head to the torso and had successfully completedconnecting an arm. The rest of Threepio's parts still lay on the table with wires andcircuits hanging out of the severed joints.
　　But, though the Wookiee was diligently working to complete his task, the goldendroid began to complain vociferously. "Well, something's not right," he fussed,"because now I can't see."
　　The patient Wookiee barked, and adjusted a wire in Threepio's neck. At last therobot could see again and he breathed a little mechanical sigh of relief. "There now,that's better."
　　But it wasn't much better. When he cast his newly activated sensor gaze towardwhere his chest should be he saw-his back! "Wait-Oh, my. What have youdone? I'm backwards!" Threepio sputtered. "You flea-bitten furball! Only anovergrown mophead like you would be stupid enough to put my head-"
　　The Wookiee growled menacingly. He had forgotten what a complainer thisdroid was. And this cell was too small for him to listen to any more of that! BeforeThreepio knew what was happening to him, the Wookiee lumbered over and pulled awire. Instantly the grumbling ceased, and the room became quiet again.
　　Then there was a familiar scent nearing the cell.
　　The Wookiee sniffed the air and hurried to the door.
　　The cell door buzzed open and a ragged, exhausted Han Solo was shoved in bytwo Imperial stormtroopers. The troopers left and Chewbacca quickly moved to hisfriend, embracing him with relief. Han's face was pale, with dark circles under hiseyes. It seemed that he was on the verge of collapse, and Chewbacca barked hisconcern to his long-time companion.
　　"No," Han said wearily, "I'm all right. I'm all right."
　　The door opened once again, and Princess Leia was thrown into the cell by thestormtroopers. She was still dressed in her elegant cloak but, like Han, she lookedtired and disheveled.
　　When the stormtroopers left and the door slid shut behind them, Chewbaccahelped Leia over to Han. The two gazed at one another with great emotion, thenreached out and tightly embraced. After a moment they kissed tenderly.
　　While Han still held her, Luke weakly asked him, "Why are they doing this? Ican't understand what they're up to."
　　Han was as puzzled as she. "They had me howling on the scan grid, but theynever asked me any question."
　　Then the door slid open again, admitting Lando and two of his Cloud Cityguards.
　　"Get out of here, Lando!" Han snarled. If he had felt stronger, he would haveleaped up to attack his traitorous friend.
　　"Shut up a minute and listen," Lando snapped. "I'm doing what I can to makethis easier for you."
　　"This ought to be good," Han remarked caustically.
　　"Vader has agreed to turn Leia and Chewie over to me," explained Lando."They'll have to stay here, but at least they'll be safe."
　　Leia gasped. "What about Han?"
　　Lando looked solemnly at his friend. "I didn't know you had a price on yourhead. Vader has given you to the bounty hunter."
　　The princess quickly looked at Han, concern flooding her eyes.
　　"You don't know much about much," Han said to Calrissian, "if you think Vaderwon't want us dead before all this is over."
　　"He doesn't want you all," Lando said. "He's after someone called Skywalker."
　　The two prisoners caught their breath at the casual mention of that name.
　　Han seemed puzzled. "Luke? I don't get it."
　　The princess's mind was racing. All the facts were beginning to fit togetherinto a terrible mosaic. In the past, Vader had wanted Leia because of her politicalimportance in the war between Empire and Rebel Alliance. Now she was almostbeneath his notice, useful only for one possible function.
　　"Lord Vader has set a trap for him," Lando added, "and-"
　　Leia finished his statement. "We're the bait."
　　"All this just to get the kid?" Han asked. "What's so important about him?"
　　"Don't ask me, but he's on his way."
　　"Luke's coming here?"
　　Lando Calrissian nodded.
　　"You fixed us all pretty good," Han growled, spitting his words at Lando,"-friend!"
　　as he snarled that last, accusing word, Han Solo's strength returned in a rush.He put all of his might into a punch that sent Lando reeling. Instantly the two formerfriends were engaged in a furious, close-quarters battle. Lando's two guards movedcloser to the two grappling opponents and began striking at Han with the butts of theirlaser rifles. One powerful blow struck Han on the chin and sent him flying acrossthe room, blood streaming from his jaw.
　　Chewbacca began to growl savagely and started for the guards. As they raisedtheir laser weapons, Lando shouted, "Don't shoot!"
　　Bruised and winded, the administrator turned to Han. "I've done what I can foryou," he said. "I'm sorry it's not better, but I've got my own problems." Thenturning to leave the cell, Lando Calrissian added, "I've already stuck my neck outfarther than I should."
　　"Yeah," Han Solo retorted, regaining his composure, "you're a real hero."
　　When Lando had left with his guards, Leia and Chewbacca helped Han back tohis feet and led him to one of the bunks. He eased his weary, battered body onto thebunk, and Leia took a piece of her cloak and began gently dabbing at his chin,cleaning off the oozing blood.
　　As she did so, she started to chuckle softly. "You certainly have a way withpeople," she teased.
　　Artoo-Detoo's head swiveled atop his barrellike body as his scanners perceivedthe star-studded void of the Bespin system.
　　The speeding X-wing had just entered the system, and was swooping throughblack space like a great white bird.
　　The R2 unit had a lot to communicate to his pilot. His electronic thoughts weretumbling out, one on top of the other, and were translated on the cockpit scope.
　　The grim-faced Luke quickly responded to the first of Artoo's urgent questions."Yes," Luke replied. "I'm sure Threepio is with them."
　　The little robot whistled an excited exclamation.
　　"Just hold on," Luke said patiently, "we'll be there soon."
　　Artoo's turning head perceived the regal clusters of stars, his innards warm andcheerful, as the X-wing continued like a celestial arrow toward a planet with a city inthe clouds.
　　Lando Calrissian and Darth Vader stood near the hydraulic platform thatdominated the huge carbon-freezing chamber. The Dark Lord was quiet while aideshurried to prepare the room.
　　The hydraulic platform was housed within a deep pit in the center of the chamberand was surrounded by countless steam pipes and enormous chemical tanks ofvarying shapes.
　　Standing guards with laser rifles clutched in their hands were four armor-suitedImperial stormtroopers.
　　Darth Vader turned to Calrissian after appraising the chamber. "The facility iscrude," he remarked, "but it should suit our needs."
　　One of Vader's officers rushed to the Sith Lord's side. "Lord Vader," hereported, "ship approaching-X-wing class."
　　"Good," Vader said coldly. "Monitor Skywalker's progress and allow him toland. We'll have the chamber ready for him shortly."
　　"We only use this facility for carbon-freezing," the administrator of Cloud Citysaid nervously. "If you put him in there, it might kill him."
　　But Vader had already considered that possibility. He knew a way to find outjust how powerful this freezing unit was. "I don't wish the Emperor's prize to bedamaged. We'll test it first." He caught the attention of his stormtroopers."Bring in Solo," the Dark Lord commanded.
　　Lando quickly glanced at Vader. He hadn't been prepared for the pure evil thatwas manifested in this terrifying being.
　　The X-wing speedily made its descent, and began to pierce the dense cloudblanket enveloping the planet.
　　Luke checked his monitor screens with growing concern. Maybe Artoo hadmore information than he was getting on his own panel. He tapped out a question tothe robot.
　　"You haven't picked up any patrol ships?"
　　Artoo-Detoo's reply was negative.
　　And so Luke, thoroughly convinced that his arrival was thus far undetected,pressed his ship onward, toward the city of his troubled vision.
　　Six of the piglike Ugnaughts frantically prepared the carbon-freezing chamberfor use, while Lando Calrissian and Darth Vader-now the true master of CloudCity-observed the hasty activity.
　　As they scurried about the carbon-freezing platform, the Ugnaughts lowered anetwork of pipes-resembling some alien giant's circulatory system-into the pit.They raised the carbonite hoses and hammered them into place. Then the sixhumanoids lifted the heavy coffinlike container and set it securely onto the platform.
　　Boba Fett rushed in, leading a squad of six Imperial stormtroopers. Thetroopers shoved and pulled Han, Leia, and the Wookiee in front of them, forcing themto hurry into the chamber. Strapped to the Wookiee's broad back was the partiallyreassembled See-Threepio, whose unattached arm and legs were roughly bundledagainst his gilded torso. The droid's head, facing the opposite direction fromChewbacca's frantically turned around to try to see where they were going and whatlay in store for them.
　　Vader turned to the bounty hunter. "Put him in the carbon-freezing chamber."
　　"What if he doesn't survive?" the calculating Boba Fett asked. "He is worth alot to me."
　　"The Empire will compensate you for the loss," Vader said succinctly.
　　Anguished, Leia protested, "No!"
　　Chewbacca threw back his maned head gave out a bellowing Wookiee howl.Then he charged directly at the line of stormtroopers guarding Han.
　　Screaming in panic, See-Threepio raised his one functioning arm to protect hisface.
　　"Wait!" the robot yelled. "What are you doing?"
　　But the Wookiee wrestled and grappled with the troopers, undaunted by theirnumber or by Threepio's frightened shrieks.
　　"Oh, no´Don't hit me!" the droid begged, trying to protect his disassembledparts with his arm. "No! He doesn't mean it! Calm down, you hairy fool!"
　　More stormtroopers had come into the room and joined the fight. Some of thetroopers began to club the Wookiee with the butts of their rifles, banging againstThreepio in the process.
　　"Ouch!" the droid screamed. "I didn't do anything!"
　　The stormtroopers had begun to overpower Chewbacca, and were about to smashhim in the face with their weapons when, over the sounds of the fray, Han shouted,"Chewie, no! Stop it, Chewbacca!"
　　Only Han Solo could deflect the maddened Wookiee from his battle. Strainingagainst the hold of his guards, Han broke away from them and rushed over to breakup the fight.
　　Vader signaled his guards to let Han go and signaled the battling stormtroopers tostop the fight.
　　Han gripped the massive forearms of his hairy friends to calm him down, thengave him a stern look.
　　The flustered Threepio was still fussing and fuming. "Oh, yes´stop, stop."Then, with a robotic sigh of relief, he said, "Thank heavens!"
　　Han and Chewbacca faced each other, the former looking grimly into his friend'seyes. For a moment they embraced tightly, then Han told the Wookiee, "Save yourstrength for another time, pal, when the odds are better." He mustered a reassuringwink, but the Wookiee was grief-stricken and barked a mournful wail.
　　"Yeah," Han said, trying his best to crack a grin, "I know. I feel the same way.Keep well." Han Solo turned to one of the guards. "You'd better chain him until it'sover."
　　The subdued Chewbacca did not resist as the stormtrooper placed restrainingbands around his wrists. Han gave his partner a final farewell hug, then turned toPrincess Leia. He took her in his arms and they embraced as if they would never letgo.
　　Then Leia pressed her lips to his in a lingering kiss of passion. When their kissended, tears were in her eyes. "I love you," she said softly. "I couldn't tell youbefore, but it's true."
　　He smiled his familiar cocky smile. "Just remember that, because I'll be back."Then his face grew tender and he kissed her gently on the forehead.
　　Tears began to roll down her cheeks as Han turned away from her and walkedquietly and fearlessly toward the waiting platform.
　　The Ugnaughts rushed to his side and positioned him on the platform, bindinghis arms and legs tightly onto the hydraulic deck. He stood alone and helpless, andgazed one last time at his friends. Chewbacca looked at his friend mournfully,Threepio's head peeking over the Wookiee's shoulder to get one last look at the braveman. The administrator, Calrissian, watched this ordeal, a solemn look of regretetched deeply into his face. And then there was Leia. Her face was contorted withthe pain of her grief as she stood regally trying to be strong.
　　Leia's was the last face Han saw when he felt the hydraulic platform suddenlydrop. As it dropped, the Wookiee bellowed a final, baleful farewell.
　　In that terrible moment, the grieving Leia turned away, and Lando grimaced insorrow.
　　Instantly fiery liquid began to pour down into the pit in a great cascading showerof fluid and sparks.
　　Chewbacca half-turned from the horrifying spectacle, giving Threepio a betterview of the process.
　　"They're encasing him in carbonite," the droid reported. "It's high-quality alloy.Much better than my own. He should be quite well protected´This is, if hesurvived the freezing process."
　　Chewbacca quickly glanced over his shoulder at Threepio, silencing his technicaldescription with an angry bark.
　　When the liquid finally solidified, huge metal tongs lifted the smoldering figurefrom the pit. The figure, which was cooling rapidly, had a recognizably humanshape, but was featureless and rocky like an unfinished sculpture.
　　Some of the hogmen, their hands protected by thick black gloves, approached themetal-encased body of Han Solo and shoved the block over. After the figure crashedto the platform with a loud, metallic clang, the Ugnaughts hoisted it into thecasket-shaped container. They then attached a boxlike electronic device to its sideand stepped away.
　　Kneeling, Lando turned some knobs on the device and checked the gaugemeasuring the temperature of Han's body. He sighed with relief and nodded hishead. "He's alive," he informed Han Solo's anxious friends, "and in perfecthibernation."
　　Darth Vader turned to Boba Fett. "He's all yours, bounty hunter," he hissed."Reset the chamber for Skywalker."
　　"He's just landed, my lord," an aide informed him.
　　"See to it that he finds his way here."
　　Indicating Leia and Chewbacca, Lando told Vader, "I'll take what is mine now."He was determined to whisk them out of Vader's clutches before the Dark Lordreneged on their contract.
　　"Take them," Vader said, "but I'm keeping a detachment of troops here to watchover them."
　　"That wasn't part of the bargain," Lando protested hotly. "You said the Empirewouldn't interfere in-"
　　"I'm altering the bargain. Pray I don't alter it any further."
　　A sudden tightness grasped Lando's throat, a threatening sign of what wouldhappen to him if he gave Vader any difficulty. Lando's hand automatically went tohis neck, but in the next moment the unseen hold was released and the administratorturned to face Leia and Chewbacca. The look in his eyes might have expresseddespair, but neither of them cared to look at him at all.
　　Luke and Artoo moved cautiously through a deserted corridor.
　　It concerned Luke that thus far they had not been stopped for questioning. Noone had asked them for landing permits, identification papers, purpose of visit. Noone in Cloud City seemed at all curious about who this young man and his little droidmight be-or what they were doing there. It all seemed rather ominous, and Lukewas beginning to feel very uneasy.
　　Suddenly he heard a sound at the far end of the corridor. Luke halted, pressinghimself close against the corridor wall. Artoo, thrilled to think that they might beback among familiar droids and humans, began to whistle and beep excitedly. Lukeglanced at him to be still, and the little robot emitted one last, feeble squeak. Lukethen peered around a corner and saw a group approaching from a side hallway.Leading the group was an imposing figure in battered armor and helmet. Behindhim, two Cloud City armed guards pushed a transparent case down the corridor.From where Luke stood it appeared the case contained a floating, statuelike humanfigure. Following the case were two Imperial stormtroopers, who spotted Luke.
　　Instantly, the troopers took aim and began to fire.
　　But Luke dodged their laser bolts and, before they could shoot another round, theyouth fired his blaster, ripping two sizzling holes into the stormtroopers' armoredchests.
　　As the troopers fell, the two guards quickly whisked the encased figure intoanother hallway and the armor-clad figure leveled his laser blaster at Luke, sending adeadly bolt at him. The beam just missed the youth, and nicked a large chunk out ofthe wall next to him, shattering it into a showed of dustlike particles. When theparticles had cleared, Luke peeked back around the corner and saw that the namelessattacker, the guards, and the case had all disappeared behind a thick metal door.
　　Hearing sounds behind him, Luke turned to see Leia, Chewbacca, See-Threepio,and an unfamiliar man in a cloak moving down yet another hallway, and guarded by asmall band of Imperial stormtroopers.
　　He gestured to catch the princess's attention.
　　"Leia!" he shouted.
　　"Luke, no!" she exclaimed, her voice charged with fear. "It's a trap!"
　　Leaving Artoo trailing behind, Luke ran off to follow them. But when hereached a small anteroom, Leia and the others had disappeared. Luke heard Artoowhistling frantically as he scooted toward the anteroom. Yet, as the youth swiftlyturned, he saw a mammoth metal door crash down in front of the startled robot with athundering clang.
　　With the slamming of that door, Luke was cut off from the main corridor. And,when he turned to find another way out, he saw more metal doors bang shut in theother doorway of the chamber.
　　Meanwhile, Artoo stood somewhat dazed by the shock of his close call. If hehad rolled just a tiny bit farther into the anteroom, the door would have squashed himinto scrap metal. He pressed his metal nose against the door, then gave out a whistleof relief and wandered off in the opposite direction.
　　The anteroom was full of hissing pipes and steam that belched from the floor.Luke began to explore the room and noticed an opening above his head, leading to aplace he could not even imagine. He moved forward to get a better look, and as hedid, the section of floor he stood on began to rise slowly upward. Luke rode up withthe lifting platform, determined to face the foe he had traveled so far to meet.
　　Keeping his blaster clutched in his hand, Luke rose into the carbon-freezingchamber. Then room was deathly quiet, except for the hissing of steam escapingsome of the pipes in the room. It appeared to Luke that he was the only livingcreature in this chamber of strange machinery and chemical containers, but he sensedthat he was not alone.
　　"Vader´"
　　He spoke the name to himself as he looked around the chamber.
　　"Lord Vader. I feel your presence. Show yourself," Luke taunted his unseenenemy, "or do you fear me?"
　　While Luke spoke, the escaping steam began to billow out in great clouds.Then, unaffected by the searing heat, Vader appeared and strode through the hissingvapors, stepping onto the narrow walkway above the chamber, his black cloak trailingbehind him.
　　Luke took a cautious step toward the demonic figure in black and holstered hisblaster. He experienced a surge of confidence and felt completely ready to face theDark Lord as one Jedi against another. There was no need for his blaster. Hesensed that the Force was with him and that, at last, he was ready for this inevitablebattle. Slowly he began to mount the stairs toward Vader.
　　"The Force is with you, young Skywalker," Darth Vader said from above, "butyou are not a Jedi yet."
　　Vader's words had a chilling effect. Briefly Luke hesitated, recalling the wordsof another former Jedi Knight: "Luke, use the Force only for knowledge and fordefense, not as a weapon. Don't give in to hate or anger. They lead the way to thedark side."
　　But throwing aside any fragment of doubt, Luke gripped the smoothly finishedhandle of his lightsaber and quickly ignited the laser blade.
　　At the same instant, Vader ignited his own laser sword and quietly waited for theyoung Skywalker to attack.
　　His great hatred for Vader impelled Luke to lunge at him savagely, bring hissizzling blade down upon Vader's. But effortlessly, the Dark Lord deflected theblow with a defensive turn of his own weapon.
　　Again Luke attacked. Once again their energy blades clashed.
　　And then they stood, staring at one another for an endless moment through theircrossed lightsabers.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  