  

The Empire Strikes Back
XIII

　　Six Imperial stormtroopers guarded Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca as they marchedthrough the inner corridor of Cloud City. They reached an intersection when twelveof Lando's guards, and his aide, arrived to block their path.
　　"Code Force Seven," Lando commanded as he stopped in front of his aide.
　　At that moment the twelve guards aimed their laser weapons at the startledstormtroopers, and Lando's aide calmly took the six troopers' weapons from them.He handed one of the guns to Leia and one to Lando, then waited for the next order.
　　"Hold them in the security tower," the Cloud City administrator said. "Quietly!No one must know."
　　The guards and Lando's aide, carrying the extra weapons, marched thestormtroopers away to the tower.
　　Leia had watched this rapid turn of events in confusion. But her confusionturned to astonishment when Lando, the man who had betrayed Han Solo, beganremoving Chewbacca's bonds.
　　"Come, on," he urged. "We're getting out of here."
　　The Wookiee's giant hands were freed at last. Not caring to wait forexplanations, Chewbacca turned toward the man who had freed him, and with ablood-curdling roar, lunged at Lando and began to throttle him.
　　"After what you did to Han," Leia said, "I wouldn't trust you to-"
　　Lando, desperately trying to free himself from Chewbacca's ferocious grip, triedto explain. "I had no choice," he began-but the Wookiee interrupted him with anangry bark.
　　"There's still a chance to save Han," Lando gasped. "They're at the EastPlatform."
　　"Chewie," Leia said at last, "let's go!"
　　Still fuming, Chewbacca released Lando and glared at him as Calrissian foughtto regain his breath.
　　"Keep your eyes on him, Chewie," Leia cautioned as the Wookiee growledthreateningly.
　　"I have a feeling," Lando muttered under his breath, "that I'm making anotherbig mistake."
　　The stout little R2 unit meandered up and down the corridor, sending hisscanners in every possible direction as he tried to detect some sign of his master-orof any kind of life. He realized he was dreadfully turned around and had lost trackof how many meters he had traveled.
　　As Artoo-Detoo turned a corner he spotted a number of forms moving up thecorridor. Beeping and whistling droid greetings, he hoped that these were friendlysorts.
　　His tooting was detected by one of the creatures, who began to call out to him.
　　"Artoo´Artoo´" It was Threepio!
　　Chewbacca, still carrying the semiassembled See-Threepio, quickly turnedaround to see the stubby R2 droid rolling their way. But as the Wookiee turned,Threepio was spun out of sight of his friend.
　　"Wait!" the aggravated Threepio demanded. "Turn around, you woolly´Artoo,hurry! We're trying to save Han from the bounty hunter."
　　Artoo scooted forward, beeping all the way, and Threepio patiently replied to hisfrantic questions.
　　"I know. But Master Luke can take care of himself." At least that was whatSee-Threepio kept telling himself as the group continued its search for Han.
　　On the East Landing Platform of Cloud City, two guards shoved the frozen bodyof Han Solo through a side hatchway of the Slave 1. Boba Fett climbed up a laddernext to the opening and boarded his ship, ordering it sealed as soon as he entered thecockpit.
　　Fett ignited his ship's engines and the craft began rolling across the platform fortakeoff.
　　Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca raced onto the platform in time only to see theSlave 1 lifting off and soaring into the orange and purple of the Cloud City sunset.Raising his blaster, Chewbacca howled and fired the weapon at the departingspaceship.
　　"It's no use," Lando told him. "They're out of range."
　　All but Threepio gazed at the departing craft. Still strapped to Chewbacca'sback, he saw something that the others had not yet noticed.
　　"Oh, my, no!" he exclaimed.
　　Charging the group was a squad of Imperial stormtroopers, blasts already issuingfrom their drawn blasters. The first bolt narrowly missed Princess Leia. Landoresponded quickly in returning the enemy fire, and the air was ablaze with a brilliantcriss-cross of red and green bolts.
　　Artoo scooted over to the platform's elevator and hid inside, peeking out to seethe fury of the battle from a safe distance.
　　Lando shouted above the sounds of the blasters. "Come on, let's move!" hecalled, breaking for the open elevator and blasting at the stormtroopers as he ran.
　　But Leia and Chewbacca did not move. They stood their ground and kept up asteady fire against the assault of the stormtroopers. Troopers groaned and droppedas their chests, arms, and stomachs erupted under the fatally accurate aim of this onefemale human and one male Wookiee.
　　Lando, sticking his head out of the elevator, tried to get their attention, motioningthem to run. But the two seemed possessed as they blasted away, getting retaliationfor all of their anger and captivity and the loss of one they both loved. They weredetermined to extinguish the lives of these minions of the Galactic Empire.
　　Threepio would gladly have been anywhere else. Unable to get away, all hecould do was frantically yell for help. "Artoo, help me!" he screamed. "How did Iget into this? What a fate worse than death it is to be strapped to the back of aWookiee!"
　　"Get in here!" Lando shouted again. "Hurry up! Hurry up!"
　　Leia and Chewbacca began to move toward him, evading the erupting rain oflaser fire as they rushed inside the waiting elevator. As the elevator door closed,they glimpsed the remaining troopers racing at them.
　　Lightsaber clashed in Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader's battle on the platformabove the carbon-freezing chamber.
　　Luke felt the shaking platform shudder with every blow and parry and thrust oftheir weapons. But he was undaunted, for with every thrust of his sword he drovethe evil Darth Vader back.
　　Vader, using his lightsaber to ward off Luke's aggressive lunges, spoke calmly asthey fought. "The fear does not reach you. You have learned more than Ianticipated."
　　"You'll find I'm full of surprises," the confident youth retorted, threateningVader with yet another thrust.
　　"And I, too," was the calm, portentous reply.
　　With two graceful moves, the Dark Lord hooked Luke's weapon out of his handsand sent it flying away. A slash of Vader's energy blade at Luke's feet made theyouth jump back in an effort to protect himself. But he stumbled backward, andtumbled down the stairs.
　　Sprawled on the platform, Luke gazed up and saw the ominous dark figurelooming above him at the top of the stairs. Then the figure flew right at him, itssable cloak billowing out in the air like the wings of a monstrous bat.
　　Quickly Luke rolled to one side, not taking his eyes off Vader, as the vast blackfigure landed soundlessly next to him.
　　"Your future lies with me, Skywalker," Vader hissed, looming over the crouchingyouth. "Now you will embrace the dark side. Obi-wan knew this to be true."
　　"No!" Luke yelled, trying to fight off the evil presence.
　　"There is much Obi-wan did not tell you," Vader continued. "Come, I willcomplete your training."
　　Vader's influence was incredibly strong; it seemed to Luke like a thing alive.
　　Don't listen to him, Luke told himself. He is trying to trick me, to lead meastray, to lead me to the dark side of the Force, just like Ben warned me!
　　Luke began to back away from the advancing Sith Lord. Behind the youth, thehydraulic elevator cover silently opened, ready to receive him.
　　"I'll die first," Luke proclaimed.
　　"That won't be necessary." The Dark Lord suddenly lunged at Luke with hislightsaber, so forcefully that the youth lost his balance and tumbled into the gapingopening.
　　Vader turned away from the freezing-pit and casually deactivated his lightsaber."All too easy," he shrugged. "Perhaps you are not as strong as the Emperorthought."
　　As he spoke, molten metal began to pour into the opening behind him. And,while his back was still turned, something rose in a blur upward.
　　"Time will tell," Luke quietly replied to Vader's remark.
　　The Dark Lord spun around. At this point in the freezing process, the subjectcertainly shouldn't be able to speak! Vader glanced around the room and then turnedhis helmeted head up toward the ceiling.
　　Hanging from some hoses draped across the ceiling, Luke was suspended,having leaped some five meters into the air to escape the carbonite.
　　"Impressive," Vader admitted, "your agility is impressive."
　　Luke dropped back to the platform on the other side of the steaming pit. Hereached his hand out and his sword, lying on another part of the platform, flew backinto his grip. Immediately the lightsaber ignited.
　　Vader's sword sprang to life at the very same moment. "Ben has taught youwell. You have controlled your fear. Now release your anger. I destroyed yourfamily. Take your revenge."
　　But this time Luke was cautious and more controlled. If he could subdue hisanger, as he had finally controlled his fear, he would not be swayed.
　　Remember the training, Luke cautioned himself. Remember what Yoda taught!Cast out all hatred and anger and receive the Force!
　　Gaining control over his negative feelings, Luke began to advance, ignoringVader's goading. He lunged at Vader and, after a quick exchange, began to forcehim back.
　　"Your hatred can give you the power to destroy me," Vader tempted. "Use it."
　　Luke began to realize just how awesomely powerful his dark enemy was, andsoftly told himself, "I will not become a slave to the dark side of the Force," andmoved cautiously toward Vader.
　　As Luke approached, Vader slowly moved backward in retreat. Luke lunged athim with a powerful swing. But when Vader blocked it, he lost his balance and fellinto the outer rim of steaming pipes.
　　Luke's knee nearly buckled with the exhaustion of battling his fearsomeopponent. He gathered his strength and cautiously moved to the edge and lookeddown. But he saw no sign of Vader. Switching off his lightsaber and hooking itinto his belt, Luke lowered himself into the pit.
　　He dropped to the floor of the pit and found himself in a large control andmaintenance room that overlooked the reactor powering the entire city. Lookingaround the chamber, he noticed a large window; standing silhouetted in front of it wasthe unmoving figure of Darth Vader.
　　Luke slowly moved closer to the window and reignited his lightsaber.
　　But Vader did not light his own sword, nor did he make any effort to defendhimself as Luke drew nearer. The Dark Lord's only weapon, in fact, was histempting voice. "Attack," he goaded the young Jedi. "Destroy me."
　　Confused by Vader's ploy, Luke hesitated.
　　"Only by taking your revenge can you save yourself´"
　　Luke stood locked in place. Should he act on Vader's words and thus used theForce as a tool of revenge? Or should he step away from this battle now, hoping foranother chance to fight Vader when he had gained better control?
　　No, how could he delay the opportunity to destroy this evil being? Here washis chance, now, and he must not delay´
　　There might never again be such an opportunity!
　　Luke grasped his deadly lightsaber in both hands, tightly gripping the smoothhandle like an ancient broadsword and raising the weapon to deliver the blow thatwould slay this masked horror.
　　But before he could swing, a large piece of machinery detached itself from thewall behind him and came hurtling at his back. Turning instantly, Luke flashed hislightsaber and cut the thing in half, and the two massive pieces crashed to the floor.
　　A second piece of machinery sped toward the youth, and he again used the Forceto deflect it. The weighty object bounced away as if it had struck an unseen shield.Then a large pipe came tumbling toward him through the air. But even as Lukerepelled that enormous object, tools and pieces of machinery came flying at him fromall directions. Then wires, that pulled themselves out of the walls, came twisting andsparking and whipping at him.
　　Bombarded on all sides, Luke did what he could to deflect the assault; but he wasbeginning to get bloodied and bruised in the attempt.
　　Another large piece of machinery glanced off Luke's body and crashed out thelarge window, letting in the screaming wind. Suddenly everything in the room wasblown about, and the fierce wind lashed Luke's body and filled the room with abansheelike howl.
　　And in the very center of the room, standing still and triumphant, was DarthVader.
　　"You are beaten," the Dark Lord of the Sith gloated. "It is useless to resist.You will join me or you will join Obi-wan in death!"
　　As Vader spoke those words, a final piece of heavy machinery soared through theair, striking the young Jedi and knocking him through the broken window.Everything became a great blur as the wind carried him, tossing and rolling, until hemanaged to grab hold of a beam with one hand.
　　When the wind subsided a bit and his vision cleared, Luke realized that he washanging from the gantry of the reactor shaft outside the control room. When hegazed down he saw what appeared to be an endless abyss. A wave of dizzinessswept over him and he squeezed his eyes closed in an effort to keep from panicking.
　　Compared to the podlike reactor from which he hung, Luke was no more than aspeck of squirming matter, while the pod itself-just one of many jutting from thecircular, light-dotted inner wall-was no more than a speck itself in comparison withthe rest of the immense chamber.
　　Grasping the beam firmly with only one hand, Luke managed to hook hislightsaber on to his belt and then grab the beam with both hands. Hoisting on it, justin time to see Darth Vader walking toward him down the shaft.
　　As Vader approached Luke, the public address system began to blare, echoingthrough the cavernous rooms: "Fugitives heading toward Platform 327. Secure alltransports. All security forces on alert."
　　Walking menacingly toward Luke, Vader predicted, "Your friends will neverescape and neither will you."
　　Vader took another step, and Luke immediately raised his sword, ready to renewthe battle.
　　"You are beaten," Vader stated with horrifying certainty and finality. "It isuseless to resist."
　　But Luke did resist. He lunged at the Dark Lord with a vicious blow, bringinghis sizzling laser blade to crash onto Vader's armor and sear through to the flesh.Vader staggered from the blow, and it seemed to Luke that he was in pain. But onlyfor a moment. Then, once again, Vader began to move toward him.
　　Taking another step, the Dark Lord warned, "Don't let yourself be destroyed asObi-wan was."
　　Luke was breathing hard, cold sweat dropping from his forehead. But thesound of Ben's name instilled a sudden resolve in him.
　　"Calm-" he reminded himself. "Be calm."
　　But the grimly cloaked specter stalked toward him along the narrow gentry, andit seemed he wanted the young Jedi's life.
　　Or worse, his fragile soul.
　　Lando, Leia, Chewbacca, and the droids hurried down a corridor. They turneda corner and saw the door to the landing platform standing open. Through it theyglimpsed the Millennium Falcon waiting for their escape. But suddenly the doorslammed shut. Ducking into an alcove, the group saw a squad of stormtrooperscharging them, their laser guns blasting as they ran. Chunks of wall and floorshattered and flew into the air with the impact of the ricocheting energy beams.
　　Chewbacca growled, returning the stormtroopers' fire with savage Wookiee rage.He covered Leia, who punched desperately at the door's control panel. But the doorfailed to budge.
　　"Artoo!" Threepio called. "The control panel. You can override the alertsystem."
　　Threepio gestured at the panel, urging the little robot to hurry, and pointing out acomputer socket on the control board.
　　Artoo-Detoo scooted toward the control panel, beeping and whistling as hescurried to help.
　　Twisting his body to avoid the burning laser bolts, Lando feverishly worked toconnect this comlink to the panel's intercom.
　　"This is Calrissian," he broadcast over the system. "The Empire is takingcontrol of the city. I advise you to leave before more Imperial troops arrive."
　　He switched off the communicator. Lando knew that he had done what hecould to warn his people; his job now was to get his friends safely off the planet.
　　Meanwhile, Artoo removed a connector cover and inserted an extendedcomputer arm into the waiting socket. The droid issued a short beep that suddenlyturned into a wild robot scream. He began to quiver, his circuits lighting up in a maddisplay of flashing brilliance, and every orifice in his hull spewing smoke. Landoquickly pulled Artoo away from the power socket. As the droid began to cool off, hedirected a few wilted beeps Threepio's way.
　　"Well, next time you pay more attention," Threepio replied defensively. "I'mnot supposed to know power sockets from computer feeds. I'm an interpreter-"
　　"Anybody else got any ideas?" Leia shouted as she stood firing at the attackingstormtroopers.
　　"Come on," Lando answered over the din of the battle, "we'll try another way."
　　The wind that shrieked through the reactor shaft entirely absorbed the sounds ofthe clashing lightsabers.
　　Luke moved agilely across the gantry and took refuge beneath a huge instrumentpanel to evade his pursuing foe. But Vader was there in an instant, his lightsaberthrashing down like a pulsating guillotine blade, cutting the instrument complex loose.the complex began to fall, but was abruptly caught by the wind and blown upward.
　　An instant of distraction was all Vader needed. As the instrument panel floatedaway, Luke involuntarily glanced at it. At that second, the Dark Lord's laser bladecame slashing down across Luke's hand, cutting it, and sending the youth's lightsaberflying.
　　The pain was excruciating. Luke smelled the terrible odor of his own searedflesh and squeezed his forearm beneath his armpit to try to stop the agony. Hestepped backward along the gantry until he reached its extreme end, stalked all thewhile by the black-garbed apparition.
　　Abruptly, ominously, the wind subsided. And Luke realized he had nowhereelse to go.
　　"There is no escape," the Dark Lord of the Sith warned, looming over Luke likea black angel of death. "Don't make me destroy you. You are strong with theForce. Now you must learn to use the dark side. Join me and together we will bemore powerful than the Emperor. Come, I will complete your training and we willrule the galaxy together."
　　Luke refused to give in to Vader's taunts. "I will never join you!"
　　"If you only knew the power of the dark side," Vader continued. "Obi-wannever told you what happened to your father, did he?"
　　mention of his father aroused Luke's anger. "He told me enough!" he yelled."He told me you killed him."
　　"No," Vader replied calmly. "I am your father."
　　Stunned, Luke stared with disbelief at the black-clad warrior and then pulledaway at this revelation. The two warriors stood staring at one another, father andson.
　　"No, no! That's not true´" Luke said, refusing to believe what he had justheard. "That's impossible."
　　"Search your feelings," Vader said, sounding like an evil version of Yoda, "youknow it to be true."
　　Then Vader turned off the blade of his lightsaber and extended a steady andinviting hand.
　　Bewildered and horror-stricken at Vader's words, Luke shouted, "No! No!"
　　Vader continued persuasively. "Luke, you can destroy the Emperor. He hasforeseen this. It is your destiny. Join me and together we can rule the galaxy asfather and son. Come with me. It is the only way."
　　Luke's mind whirled with those words. Everything was finally beginning tocoalesce in his brain. Or was it? He wondered if Vader were telling him thetruth-if the training of Yoda, the teaching of saintly old Ben, his own strivings forgood and his abhorrence of evil, if everything he had fought for were no more than alie.
　　He didn't want to believe Vader, tried convincing himself that it was Vader wholied to him-but somehow he could feel the truth in the Dark Lord's words. But, ifDarth Vader did speak the truth, why, he wondered, had Ben Kenobi lied to him?Why? His mind screamed louder than any wind the Dark Lord could ever summonagainst him.
　　The answers no longer seemed to matter.
　　His Father.
　　With the calmness that Ben himself and Yoda, the Jedi Master, had taught him,Luke Skywalker made, perhaps, what might be his final decision of all. "Never,"Luke shouted as he stepped out into the empty abyss beneath him. For all itsunperceived depth, Luke might have been falling to another galaxy.
　　Darth Vader moved to the end of the gantry to watch as Luke tumbled away. Astrong wind began to blow, billowing Vader's black cloak out behind him as he stoodlooking over the edge.
　　Skywalker's body quickly plunged downward. Toppling head over foot, thewounded Jedi desperately reached out to grab at something to stop his fall.
　　The Dark Lord watched until he saw the youth's body sucked into a largeexhaust pipe in the side of the reactor shaft. When Luke vanished, Vader quicklyturned and hurried off the platform.
　　Luke sped through the exhaust shaft trying to grab the sides to slow his fall.But the smooth, shiny sides of the pipe had no hand-holes or ridges for Luke to grasp.
　　At last he came to the end of the tunnellike pipe, his feet striking hard against acircular grill. The grill, which opened over an apparently bottomless drop, wasknocked out by the impact of Luke's momentum, and he felt his body starts to slideout through the opening. Frantically clawing at the smooth interior of the pipe, Lukebegan to call out for assistance.
　　"Ben´Ben, help me," he pleaded desperately.
　　Even as he called out, he felt his fingers slip along the inside of the pipe, whilehis body inched ever closer to the yawning opening.
　　Cloud City was in chaos.
　　As soon as Lando Calrissian's broadcast was heard throughout the city, itsresidents began to panic. Some of them packed a few belongings, others just rushedout into the streets seeking escape. Soon the streets were filled with running humansand aliens, rushing chaotically through the city. Imperial stormtroopers charged afterthe fleeing inhabitants, exchanging laser fire with them in a raging, clamorous battle.
　　In one of the city's central corridors, Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca held off asquad of stormtroopers by blasting heavy rounds of laser bolts at the Imperial warriors.It was urgent that Lando and the others hold their ground, for they had come uponanother entrance that would lead them to the landing platform. If only Artoosucceeded in opening the door.
　　Artoo was trying to remove the plate from this door's control panel. Butbecause of the noise and distraction of the laser fire blasting around him, it wasdifficult for the little droid to concentrate on his work. He beeped to himself as heworked, sounding a bit befuddled to Threepio.
　　"What are you talking about?" Threepio called to him. "We're not interested inthe hyperdrive on the Millennium Falcon. It's fixed. Just tell the computer to openthe door."
　　Then, as Lando, Leia, and the Wookiee edged toward the door, dodging heavyImperial laser fire, Artoo beeped triumphantly and the door snapped open.
　　"Artoo, you did it!" Threepio exclaimed. The droid would have applauded hadhis other arm been attached. "I never doubted you for a second."
　　"Hurry," Lando shouted, "or we'll never make it."
　　The helpful R2 unit came through once again. As the others dashed through theentrance, the stout robot sprayed out a thick fog-as dense as the clouds surroundingthis world-that obscured his friends from the encroaching stormtroopers. Beforethe cloud had cleared, Lando and the others were racing toward Platform 327.
　　The stormtroopers followed, blasting at the small band of fugitive bolting towardthe Millennium Falcon. Chewbacca and the robots boarded the freighter whileLando and Leia covered them with their blasters, cutting down still more of theEmperor's warriors.
　　When the low-pitched roar of the Falcon's engines started and then rose to anear-battering whine, Lando and Leia discharged a few more bolts of brilliant energy.Then they sprinted up the ramp. They entered the pirate ship and the main hatchwayclosed behind them. And as the ship began to move, they heard a barrage ofImperial laser fire that sounded as if the entire planet were splitting apart at itsfoundations.
　　Luke could no longer slow his inexorable slide out the exhaust pipe.
　　He slid the final few centimeters and then dropped through the cloudyatmosphere, his body spinning and his arms flailing to grip on to something solid.
　　After what seemed like forever, he caught hold of an electronic weather vane thatjutted out from the bowllike underside of Cloud City. Winds buffeted him andclouds swirled around him as he held on tightly to the weather vane. But hisstrength was beginning to fail; he didn't think he could hang like this-suspendedabove the gaseous surface-for very much longer.
　　All was very quiet in the Millennium Falcon cockpit.
　　Leia, just catching her breath from their close escape, sat in Han Solo's chair.Thoughts of him rushed to her mind, but she tried not to worry about him, tried not tomiss him.
　　Behind the princess, looking over her shoulder out the front windscreen, stood asilent and exhausted Lando Calrissian.
　　Slowly the ship began to move, picking up speed as it coursed along the landingplatform.
　　The giant Wookiee, in his old copilot's chair, threw a series of switches thatbrought a dancing array of lights across the ship's main control panel. Pulling thethrottle, Chewbacca began to guide the ship upward, to freedom.
　　Clouds rushed by the cockpit windows and everyone finally breathed with reliefas the Millennium Falcon soared into a red-orange twilight sky.
　　Luke managed to hook one of his legs over the electronic weather vane, whichcontinued to support his weight. But air from the exhaust pipe rushed at him,making it difficult for him to keep from slipping off the vane.
　　"Ben´" he moaned in agony. "´Ben."
　　Darth Vader strode onto the empty landing platform and watched the speck thatwas the Millennium Falcon disappears in the far distance.
　　He turned to his two aides. "Bring my ship in!" he commanded. And then heleft, black robes flowing behind him, to prepare for his journey.
　　Somewhere near the supporting stalk of Cloud City, Luke spoke again.Concentrating his mind on one whom he thought cared for him and might somehowcome to his aid, he called, "Leia, hear me." Pitifully he cried out once again."Leia."
　　Just then, a large piece of the weather vane broke off and went hurtling off intothe clouds far below. Luke tightened his grip on what remained of the vane, andstrained to hold on in the blast of air rushing at him from the pipe above.
　　"It looks like three fighters," Lando said to Chewbacca as they watched thecomputer-screen configurations. "We can outdistance them easily," he added,knowing the capabilities of the freighter as well as Han Solo did.Looking at Leia, he mourned the passing of his administratorship. "I know thatsetup was too good to last," he moaned. "I'm going to miss it."
　　But Leia seemed to be in a daze. She didn't acknowledge Lando's comments,but stared straight ahead of her as if transfixed. Then, out of her dreamlike trance,she spoke. "Luke?" she said, as if responding to something she heard.
　　"What?" Lando asked.
　　"We've got to go back," she said urgently. "Chewie, head for the bottom of thecity."
　　Lando looked at her in astonishment. "Wait a minute. We're not going backthere!"
　　The Wookiee barked, for once in agreement with Lando.
　　"No argument," Leia said firmly, assuming the dignity of one accustomed tohaving her orders obeyed. "Just do it! That's a command!"
　　"What about those fighters?" Lando argued as he pointed to three TIE fightersclosing in on them. He looked to Chewbacca for support.
　　But, growling menacingly, Chewbacca conveyed that he knew who was incommand now.
　　"Okay, okay," Lando quietly acquiesced.
　　With all the grace and speed for which the Millennium Falcon was famed, theship banked through the clouds and turned back toward the city. And, as thefreighter continued on what could become a suicide run, the three pursuing TIEfighters matched its turn.
　　Luke Skywalker was unaware of the Millennium Falcon's approach. Barelyconscious, he somehow maintained his hold on the creaking and swaying weathervane. The device bent under the weight of his body, then completely broke off fromits foundation, and sent Luke tumbling helplessly through the sky. And this time, heknew, there would be nothing for him to cling to as he fell.
　　"Look!" Lando exclaimed, indicating a figure plunging in the distance."Someone's falling´"
　　Leia managed to remain calm; she knew that panic would doom them all. "Getunder him, Chewie," she told the pilot. "It's Luke."
　　Chewbacca immediately responded and carefully eased the Millennium Falconon a descent trajectory.
　　"Lando," Leia called, turning to him, "open the top hatch."
　　As he rushed out of the cockpit, Lando thought it a strategy worthy of Solohimself.
　　Chewbacca and Leia could see Luke's plunging body more clearly, and theWookiee guided the ship toward him. As Chewie retarded the ship's speeddrastically, the plummeting form skimmed the windscreen and then landed with athud against the outer hull.
　　Lando opened the upper hatch. In the distance he glimpsed the three TIEfighters approaching the Falcon, their laser guns brightening the twilight sky withstreaks of hot destruction. Lando stretched his body out of the hatch and reached tograsp the battered warrior and pull him inside the ship. Just then Falcon lurched as abolt exploded near it, and almost threw Luke's body overboard. But Lando caughthis hand and held on tightly.
　　The Millennium Falcon veered away from Cloud City and soared through thethick billowing cloud cover. Swerving to avoid the blinding flak from the TIEfighters, Princess Leia and the Wookiee pilot struggled to keep their ship skyborne.But explosions burst all around the cockpit, the din competing with Chewbacca'showl as he frantically worked the controls.
　　Leia switched on the intercom. "Lando, is he all right?" she shouted over thenoise in the cockpit. "Lando, do you hear me?"
　　From the rear of the cockpit, she heard a voice that wasn't Lando's. "He'llsurvive," Luke replied faintly.
　　Leia and Chewbacca turned to see Luke, bettered and bloodied and wrapped in ablanket, being helped into the cockpit by Lando. The princess jumped up from herchair and hugged him ecstatically. Chewbacca, still trying to guide the ship out ofthe TIE fighter' range of fire, threw back his head and barked in jubilation.
　　Behind the Millennium Falcon, the planet of clouds was receding farther in thedistance. But the TIE fighters kept up their close pursuit, firing their laser weaponsand rocking the pirate craft with each on-target hit.
　　Working diligently in the Falcon's hold, Artoo-Detoo struggled against theconstant lunging and tossing to reassemble his golden friend. Meticulously trying toundo the mistakes of the well-intentioned Wookiee, the little droid beeped as heperformed the intricate task.
　　"Very good," the protocol droid praised. His head was on properly and hissecond arm was nearly completely reattached. "Good as new."
　　Artoo beeped apprehensively.
　　"No, Artoo, don't worry. I'm sure we'll make it this time."
　　But in the cockpit, Lando was not so optimistic. He saw the warning lights onthe control panel begin to flash; suddenly alarms all over the ship went on. "Thedeflector shields are going," he reported to Leia and Chewbacca.
　　Leia looked over Lando's shoulder and noticed another blip, ominously large,that had appeared on radarscope. "There's another ship," she said, "much bigger,trying to cut us off."
　　Luke quietly gazed out the cockpit window toward the starry void. Almost tohimself, he said, "It's Vader."
　　Admiral Piett approached Vader, who stood on the bridge of this, the greatest ofall Imperial Star Destroyers, and stared out the windows.
　　"They'll be in range of the tractor beam in moments," the admiral reportedconfidently.
　　"And their hyperdrive has been deactivated?" Vader asked.
　　"Right after they were captured, sir."
　　"Good," the giant black-robed figure said. "Prepare for the boarding and setyour weapons for stun."
　　The Millennium Falcon so far had managed to evade its TIE fighter pursuers.But could it escape attack from the ominous Star Destroyer that pressed toward it,ever closer?
　　"We don't have any room for mistakes," Leia said tensely, watching the largeblip on the monitors.
　　"If my men said they fixed this baby, they fixed it," Lando assured her. "We'vegot nothing to worry about."
　　"Sounds familiar," Leia mused to herself.
　　The ship was rocked again by the concussion of another laser explosion, but atthat moment a green light began flashing on the control panel.
　　"The coordinates are set, Chewie," Leia said. "It's now or never."
　　The Wookiee barked in agreement. He was ready for the hyperdrive escape.
　　"Punch it!" Lando yelled.
　　Chewbacca shrugged as if to say it was worth a try. He pulled back on thelight-speed throttle, suddenly altering the sound of the ion engines. All on boardwere praying in human and droid fashion that the system would work; they had noother hope of escape. But abruptly the sound choked and died and Chewbaccaroared a howl of desperate frustration.
　　Again the hyperdrive system had failed them.
　　And still the Millennium Falcon lurched with the TIE fighters' fire.
　　From his Imperial Star Destroyer, Darth Vader watched in fascination as the Tiefighters relentlessly fired at the Millennium Falcon. Vader's ship was closing in onthe fleeing Falcon-it would not be long before the Dark Lord had Skywalkercompletely in his power.
　　And Luke sensed it, too. Quietly he gazed out, knowing that Vader was near,that his victory over the weakened Jedi would soon be complete. His body wasbattered, was exhausted; his spirit was prepared to succumb to his fate. There wasno reason to fight any more-there was nothing left to believe in.
　　"Ben," he whispered in utter despair, "why didn't you tell me?"
　　Lando tried to adjust some controls, and Chewbacca leaped from his chair to racethe hold. Leia took Chewbacca's seat and helped Lando as they flew the Falconthrough the exploding flak.
　　As the Wookiee ran into the hold, he passed Artoo, who was still working onThreepio. The R2 unit began to beep in great consternation as he scanned theWookiee frantically trying to fix the hyperdrive system.
　　"I said we're doomed!" the panicked Threepio told Artoo. "The light-speedengines are malfunctioning again."
　　Artoo beeped as he connected a leg.
　　"How could you know what's wrong?" the golden droid scoffed. "Ouch!Mind my foot! And stop chattering on so."
　　Lando's voice sounded in the hold through the intercom. "Chewie, check thesecondary deviation controls."
　　Chewbacca dropped into the hold's pit. He fought to loosen a section of thepaneling with an enormous wrench. But it failed to budge. Roaring in frustration,he gripped the tool like a club and bashed the panel with all his strength.
　　Suddenly the cockpit control panel sprayed Lando and the princess with ashower of sparks. They jumped back in their seats in surprise, but Luke didn'tseemed to notice anything happening around him. His head hung in discouragementand deep pain.
　　"I won't be able to resist him," he muttered softly.
　　Again Lando banked the Millennium Falcon, trying to shed the pursuers. Butthe distance between the freighter and TIE fighters was narrowing by the moment.
　　In the Millennium Falcon's hold, Artoo raced to a control panel, leaving anoutraged Threepio to stand sputtering in place on his one attached leg. Artooworked swiftly, relying only on mechanical instinct to reprogram the circuit board.Lights flashed brightly with each of Artoo's adjustments, when suddenly, from deepwithin the Falcon's hyperspeed engines, a new and powerful hum resonatedthroughout the ship.
　　The freighter tilted suddenly, sending the whistling R2 droid rolling across thefloor into the pit to land on the startled Chewbacca.
　　Lando, who had been standing near the control panel, tumbled back against thecockpit wall. But as he fell back, he saw the stars outside become blinding, infinitestreaks of light.
　　"We did it!" Lando yelled triumphantly.
　　The Millennium Falcon had shot victoriously into hyperdrive.
　　Darth Vader stood silently. He gazed at the black void where, a moment before,the Millennium Falcon had been. His deep, black silence brought terror to the twomen standing near him. Admiral Piett and his captain waited, chills of fear coursingthrough their bodies, and wondered how soon they would feel the invisible, viseliketalons around their throats.
　　But the Dark Lord did not move. He stood, silently contemplative, with hishands behind his back. Then he turned and slowly walked off the bridge, his eboncloak billowing behind him.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  