  

Return of The Jedi
Prologue

　　The very depth of space. There was the length, and width, and height; and thenthese dimensions curved over on themselves into a bending blackness measurableonly by the glinting stars that tumbled through the chasm, receding to infinity. Tothe very depth.
　　These stars marked the moments of the universe. There were aging orangeembers, blue dwarfs, twin yellow giants. There were collapsing neutron stars, andangry supernovae that hissed into the icy emptiness. There were borning stars,breathing stars, pulsing stars, and dying stars. There was the Death Star.
　　At the feathered edge of the galaxy, the Death Star floated in stationary orbitabove the green moon Endor-a moon whose mother planet had long since died ofunknown cataclysm and disappeared into unknown realms. The Death Star was theEmpire's armored battle station, nearly twice as big as its predecessor, which Rebelforces had destroyed so many years before-nearly twice as big, but more than twiceas powerful. Yet it was only half complete.
　　Half a steely dark orb, it hung above the green world of Endor, tentacles ofunfinished superstructure curling away toward its living companion like the gropinglegs of a deadly spider.
　　An Imperial Star Destroyer approached the giant space station at cruising speed.It was massive-a city itself-yet it moved with deliberate grace, like some great seadragon. It was accompanied by dozens of Twin Ion Engines fighters-blackinsectlike combat flyers that zipped back and forth around the battle ship's perimeter:scouting, sounding, docking, regrouping.
　　Soundlessly the main bay of the ship opened. There was a brief ignition-flash,as an Imperial shuttle emerged from the darkness of the hold, into the darkness ofspace. It sped toward the half-completed Death Star with quiet purpose.
　　In the cockpit the shuttle captain and his copilot made final readings, monitoreddescent functions. It was a sequence they'd each performed a thousand times, yetthere was an unusual tension in the air now. The captain flipped the transmitterswitch, and spoke into his mouthpiece.
　　"Command Station, this is ST321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting ourapproach. Deactivate the security shield."
　　Static filtered over the receiver; then the voice of the port controller: "Thesecurity deflector shield will be deactivated when we have confirmation of your codetransmission. Stand by´"
　　Once more silence filled the cockpit. The shuttle captain bit the inside of hischeek, smiled nervously at his copilot, and muttered, "Quick as you can, please-thisbetter not take long. He's in no mood to wait.."
　　They refrained from glancing back into the passenger section of the shuttle, nowunder lights-out for landing. The unmistakable sound of the mechanical breathingcoming from the chamber's shadow filled the cabin with a terrible impatience.
　　In the control room of Death Star below, operators moved along the bank ofpanels, monitoring all the space traffic in the area, authorizing flight patterns,accessing certain areas to certain vehicles. The shield operator suddenly checked hismonitor with alarm; the view-screen depicted the battle station itself, the moon Endor,and a web of energy-the deflector shield-emanating from the green moon,encompassing the Death Star. Only now, the security web was beginning to separate,to retract and form a clear channel-a channel through which the dot that was theImperial shuttle sailed, unimpeded, toward the massive space station.
　　The shield operator quickly called his control officer over to the view-screen,uncertain how to proceed.
　　"What is it?" the officer demanded.
　　"That shuttle has a class-one priority ranking." He tried to replace the fear inhis voice with disbelief.
　　The officer glanced at the view-screen for only a moment before realizing whowas on the shuttle and spoke to himself: "Vader!"
　　He strode past the view port, where the shuttle could be seen already making itsfinal approach, and headed toward the docking bay. He turned to the controller.
　　"Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.
　　The shuttle sat quietly, dwarfed by the cavernous reaches of the huge dockingbay. Hundreds of troops stood assembled in formation, flanking the base of theshuttle ramp-white armored Imperial stormtroopers, gray-suited officers, and elite,red-robed Imperial Guard. They snapped to attention as Moff Jerjerrod entered.
　　Jerjerrod-tall, thin, arrogant-was the Death Star commander. He walkedwithout hurry up the ranks of soldiers, to the ramp of the shuttle. Hurry was not inJerjerrod, for hurry implied a wanting to be elsewhere, and he was a man whodistinctively was exactly where he wanted to be. Great men never hurried (he wasfond of saying); great men caused others to hurry.
　　Yet Jerjerrod was not blind to ambition; and a visit by such a one as this greatDark Lord could not be taken too lightly. He stood at the shuttle mouth, therefore,waiting-with respect, but not hurry.
　　Suddenly the exit hatch of the shuttle opened, pulling the troops in formation toeven tauter attention. Only darkness glowed from the exit at first; then footsteps;then the characteristic electrical respirations, like the breathing of a machine; andfinally Darth Vader, Lord of the Sith, emerged from the void.
　　Vader strode down the ramp, looking over the assemblage. He stopped when hecame to Jerjerrod. The commander bowed from the neck, and smiled.
　　"Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We are honored by yourpresence."
　　"We can dispense with the pleasantries, Commander." Vader's words echoed asfrom the bottom of a well. "The Emperor is concerned with your progress. I amhere to put you back on schedule."
　　Jerjerrod turned to pale. This was news he'd not expected. "I assure you,Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can."
　　Perhaps I can encourage their progress in ways you have not considered," Vadergrowled. He had ways, of course; this was known. Ways, and ways again.
　　Jerjerrod kept his tone even, though deep inside, the ghost of hurry began toscrabble at his throat. "That won't be necessary, my Lord. I tell you, withoutquestion this station will be operational as planned."
　　"I'm afraid the Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of thesituation."
　　"I fear he asks the impossible," the commander suggested.
　　"Perhaps you could explain that to him when he arrives." Vader's face remainedinvisible behind the deathly black mask that protected him; but the malice was clear inthe electronically modified voice.
　　Jerjerrod's pallor intensified. "The Emperor is coming here?"
　　"Yes, Commander. And he will be quite displeased if you are still behindschedule when he arrives." He spoke loudly, to spread the threat over all who couldhear.
　　"We shall double our efforts, Lord Vader." And he meant it. For sometimesdidn't even great men hurry, in time of great need?
　　Vader lowered his voice again. "I hope so, Commander, for your sake. TheEmperor will tolerate no further delay in the final destruction of the outlaw Rebellion.And we have secret news now"-he included Jerjerrod, only, in this intimatedetail-"The Rebel fleet has gathered all its forces into a single giant armada. Thetime is at hand when we can crush them, without mercy, in a single blow."
　　For the briefest second, Vader's breathing seemed to quicken, then resumed itsmeasured pace, like the rising of hollow wind.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  