  

Return of The Jedi
II

　　Han strained to see her, though he had the eyes of a newborn. "Leia! Where arewe?"
　　"Jabba's palace. I've got to get you out of here quick."
　　He sat up shakily. "Everything's a blur´I'm not going to be much help´"
　　She looked at him a long moment, her blinded love-she'd traveled light-yearsto find him, risked her life, lost hard-won time needed sorely by the Rebellion, timeshe couldn't really afford to throw away on personal quests and private desires´butshe loved him.
　　Tears filled her eyes. "We'll make it," she whispered.
　　Impulsively, she embraced him and kissed him again. He, too, was floodedwith emotion all at once-back from the dead, the beautiful princess filling his arms,snatching him from the teeth of the void. He felt overwhelmed. Unable to move,even to speak, he held her tightly, his blind eyes closed fast against all the sordidrealities that would come rushing in soon enough.
　　Sooner than that, as it happened. A repulsive squishing sound suddenly becameall too obvious behind them. Han opened his eyes, but could still see nothing. Leialooked up to the alcove beyond, and her gaze turned to an expression of horror. Forthe curtain had been drawn away, and the entire area, floor to ceiling, was composedof a gallery of the most disgusting miscreants of Jabba's court-gawking, salivating,wheezing.
　　Leia's hand shot up to her mouth.
　　"What is it?" Han pressed her. Something obviously was terribly wrong. Hestared into his own blackness.
　　An obscene cackle rose from the other side of the alcove. A Huttese cackle.
　　Han held his head, closed his eyes again, as if to keep away the inevitable for justone more moment. "I know that laugh."
　　The curtain on the far side was suddenly drawn open. There sat Jabba, Ishi Tib,Bib, Boba, and several guards. They all laughed, kept laughing, laughed to punish.
　　"My, my, what a touching sight," Jabba purred. "Han, my boy, your taste incompanions has improved, even if your luck has not."
　　Even blind, Solo could slide into smooth talk easier than a spice-eater. "Listen,Jabba, I was on my way back to pay you when I got a little side-tracked. Now Iknow we've had our differences, but I'm sure we can work this out´"
　　This time Jabba genuinely chuckled. "It's too late for that, Solo. You mayhave been the best smuggler in the business, but now you're Bantha fodder." He cutshort his smile and gestured to his guards. "Take him."
　　Guards grabbed Leia and Han. They dragged the Corellian pirate off, whileLeia continued struggling where she was.
　　"I will decide how to kill him later," Jabba muttered.
　　"I'll pay you triple," Solo called out. "Jabba, you're throwing away a fortune.Don't be fool." Then he was gone.
　　From the rank of guards, Lando quickly moved forward, took hold of Leia, andattempted to lead her away.
　　Jabba stopped them. "Wait! Bring her to me."
　　Lando and Leia halted in mid-stride. Lando looked tense, uncertain what to do.It wasn't quite time to move yet. The odds still weren't just right. He knew he wasthe ace-in-the-hole, and an ace-in-the-hole was something you had to know how toplay to win.
　　"I'll be all right," Leia whispered.
　　"I'm not so sure," he replied. But the moment was pasted; there was nothingelse to be done now. He and Ishi Tib, the Birdlizard, dragged the young princess toJabba.
　　Threepio, who'd been watching everything from his place behind Jabba, couldwatch no more. He turned away in dread.
　　Leia, on the other hand, stood tall before the loathsome monarch. Her anger ranhigh. With all the galaxy by this petty scumdealer was more outrageous than shecould tolerate. Still, she kept her voice calm; for she was, in the end, a princess."We have powerful friends Jabba. You will soon regret this´"
　　"I'm sure, I'm sure," the old gangster rumbled with glee, "but in the meantime, Iwill thoroughly enjoy the pleasure of your company."
　　He pulled her eagerly to him until their faces were mere inches apart, her bellypressed to his oily snake skin. She thought about killing him outright, then and there.But she held her ire in check, since the rest of these vermin might have killed herbefore she could escape with Han. Better odds were sure to come later. So sheswallowed hard and, for the time being, put up with this slimepot as best she could.
　　Threepio peeked out momentarily, then immediately withdrew again. "Oh, no,I can't watch."
　　Foul beast that he was, Jabba poked his fat, dripping tongue out to the princess,and slopped a beastly kiss squarely on her mouth.
　　Han was thrown roughly into the dungeon cell; the door crashed shut behind him.He fell to the floor in the darkness, then picked himself up and sat against the wall.After a few moments of pounding the ground with his fist, he quieted down and triedto organize his thoughts.
　　Darkness. Well, blast it, blind is blind. No use wishing for moondew on ameteorite. Only it was so frustrating, coming out of deep-freeze like that, saved bythe one person who´
　　Leia! The star captain's stomach dropped at the thought of what must behappening to her now. If only he knew where he was. Tentatively he knocked onthe wall behind him. Solid rock.
　　What could he do? Bargain, maybe. But what did he have to bargain with?Dumb question, he thought-when did I ever have to have something before I couldbargain with it?
　　What, though? Money? Jabba had more than he could ever count. Pleasures?Nothing could give Jabba more pleasure than to defile the princess and kill Solo. No,things were bad-in fact, it didn't look like they could get much worse.
　　Then he heard the growl. A low, formidable snarl from out of the denseblackness at the far corner of the cell, the growl of a large and angry beast.
　　The hair on Solo's arms stood on end. Quickly he rose, his back to the wall."Looks like I've got company," he muttered.
　　The wild creature bellowed out an insane "Groawwwwr!" and raced straight atSolo, grabbing him ferociously around the chest, lifting him several feet into the air,squeezing off his breathing.
　　Han was totally motionless for several long seconds-he couldn't believe hisears. "Chewie, is that you!?"
　　The giant Wookiee barked with joy.
　　For the second time in an hour, Solo was overcome with happiness; but this wasan entirely different matter. "All right, all right, wait a second, you're crushing me."
　　Chewbacca put his friend down. Han reached up and scratched his partner'schest; Chewie cooed like a pup.
　　"Okay, what's going on around here, anyway?" Han was instantly back on track.Here was unbelievably good fortune-here was someone he could make a plan with.And not only someone, but his most loyal friend in the galaxy.
　　Chewie filled him in at length. "Arh arhaghh shpahrgh rahr aurowwwrahrahgrop rahp rah."
　　"Lando's plan? What is he doing here?"
　　Chewie barked extensively.
　　Han shook his head. "Is Luke crazy? Why'd you listen to him? That kidcan't even take care of himself, let alone rescue anyone."
　　"Rowr ahragh awf ahraroww rowh rohngr grgrff rf rf."
　　"A Jedi Knight? Come on. I'm out of it for a little while and everybody getsdelusions´"
　　Chewbacca growled insistently.
　　Han nodded dubiously in the blackness. "I'll believe it when I see it-" hecommented, walking stoutly into the wall. "If you'll excuse the expression."
　　The iron main gate of Jabba's palace scraped open harshly, oiled only with sandand time. Standing outside in the dusty gale, staring into the black cavernousentranceway, was Luke Skywalker.
　　He was clad in the robe of the Jedi Knight-a cassock, really-but bore neithergun nor lightsaber. He stood loosely, without bravado, taking a measure of the placebefore entering. He was a man now. Wiser, like a man-older more from loss thanfrom years. Loss of illusions, loss of dependency. Loss of friends, to war. Lossof sleep, to stress. Loss of laughter. Loss of his hand.
　　But of all his losses, the greatest was that which came from knowledge, and fromthe deep recognition that he could never un-know what he knew. So many things hewished he'd never learned. He had aged with the weight of this knowledge.
　　Knowledge brought benefits, of course. He was less impulsive now.Manhood had given him perspective, a framework in which to fit the events of hislife-that is, a lattice of spatial and time coordinates spanning his existence, backearliest memories, ahead to a hundred alternative futures. A lattice of depths, andconundrums, and interstices, through which Luke could peer at any new event in hislife, peer at it with perspective. A lattice of shadows and corners, rolling back to thevanishing point on the horizon of Luke's mind. And all these shadow boxes that lentsuch perspective to things´well, this lattice gave his life a certain darkness.
　　Nothing of substance, of course-and in any case, some would have said thisshading gave a depth to his personality, where before it had been thin, withoutdimension-though such a suggestion probably would have come from jaded critics,reflecting a jaded time. Nonetheless, there was a certain darkness, now.
　　There were other advantages to knowledge: rationality, etiquette, choice.Choice, of them all, was a true double-edged sword; but it did have its advantages.
　　Furthermore he was skilled in the craft of the Jedi now, where before he'd beenmerely precocious.
　　He was more aware now.
　　These were all desirable attributes, to be sure; and Luke knew as well as anyonethat all things alive must grow. Still, it carried a certain sadness, the sum of all thisknowledge. A certain sense of regret. But who could afford to be a boy in timessuch as these?
　　Resolutely, Luke strode into the arching hallway.
　　Almost immediately two Gamorreans stepped up, blocking his path. One spokein voice that did not invite debate. "No chuba!"
　　Luke raised his hand and pointed at the guards. Before either could draw aweapon, they were both clutching their own throats, choking, gasping. They fell totheir knees.
　　Luke lowered his hand and walked on. The guards, suddenly able to breatheagain, slumped to the sand-drifted steps. They didn't follow.
　　Around the next corner Luke was met by Bib Fortuna. Fortuna began speakingas he approached the young Jedi, but Luke never broke stride, so Bib had to reversehis direction in mid-sentence and hurry along with Skywalker in order to carry onconversation.
　　"You must be the one called Skywalker. His Excellency will not see you."
　　"I will speak to Jabba, now," Luke spoke evenly, never slowing. They passedseveral more guards at the next crossing, who fell in behind them.
　　"The great Jabba is asleep," Bib explained. "He has instructed me to tell youthere will be no bargains-"
　　Luke stopped suddenly, and stared at Bib. He locked eyes with the major-domo,raised his hand slightly, took a minutely inward turn. "You will take me to Jabba,now."
　　Bib paused, tilted his head a fraction. What were his instructions? Oh, yes,now he remembered. "I will take you to Jabba now."
　　He turned and walked down the twisting corridor that led to the throne chamber.Luke followed him into the gloom.
　　"You serve your master well," he whispered in Bib's ear.
　　"I serve my master well," Bib nodded with conviction.
　　"You are sure to be rewarded," Luke added.
　　Bib smiled smugly. "I am sure to be rewarded."
　　As Luke and Bib entered Jabba's court, the level of tumult dropped precipitouslyas if Luke's presence had a cooling effect. Everyone felt a change.
　　The lieutenant and the Jedi Knight approached the throne. Luke saw Leiaseated there, now, by Jabba's belly. She was chained at the neck and dressed in theskimpy costume of a dancing girl. He could feel her pain immediately, from acrossthe room-but he said nothing, didn't even look at her, shut her anguish completelyout of his mind. For he needed to focus his attention entirely on Jabba.
　　Leia, for her part, sensed this at once. She closed her mind to Luke, to keepherself from distracting him; yet at the same time she kept it open, ready to receiveany sliver of information she might need to act. She felt charged with possibilities.
　　Threepio peeked out from behind the throne as Bib walked up. For the firsttime in many days, he scanned his hope program. "Ah! At last Master Luke'scome to take me away from all this," he beamed.
　　Bib stood proudly before Jabba. "Master, I present Luke Skywalker, JediKnight."
　　"I told you not to admit him," the gangster-slug growled in Huttese.
　　"I must be allowed to speak," Luke spoke quietly, though his words were heardthroughout the hall.
　　"He must be allowed to speak," Bob concurred thoughtfully.
　　Jabba, furious, bashed Bib across the face and sent his reeling to the floor."You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick!"
　　Luke let all the rest of the motley horde that surrounded him melt into therecesses of his consciousness, to let Jabba fill his mind totally. "You will bringCaptain Solo and the Wookiee to me."
　　Jabba smiled grimly. "Your mind powers will not work on me, boy. I am notaffected by your human thought pattern." Then, as an afterthought: "I was killingyour kind when being a Jedi meant something."
　　Luke altered his stance somewhat, internally and externally. "Nevertheless, Iam taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either profit from this´or bedestroyed. It's your choice, but I warn you not to underestimate my powers." Hespoke in his own language, which Jabba well understood.
　　Jabba laughed the laugh of a lion cautioned by a mouse.
　　Threepio, who had been observing this interplay intently, leaned forward towhisper to Luke: "Master, you're standing-" A guard abruptly restrained theconcerned droid, though, and pulled him back to his place.
　　Jabba cut short his laugh with a scowl. "There will be no bargain, young Jedi.I shall enjoy watching you die."
　　Luke raised his hand. A pistol jumped out of the holster of a nearby guard andlanded snugly in the Jedi's palm. Luke pointed the weapon at Jabba.
　　Jabba spat. "Boscka!"
　　The floor suddenly dropped away, sending Luke and his guard crashing into thepit below. The trap door immediately closed again. All the beasts of the courtrushed to the floor-grating and looked down.
　　"Luke!" yelled Leia. She felt part of her self torn away, pulled down into thepit with him. She started forward, but was held in check by the manacle around herthroat. Raucous laughter crowded in from everywhere at once, set her on edge.She poised to flee.
　　A human guard touched her shoulder. She looked. It was Lando.Imperceptibly, he shook his head No. Imperceptibly, her muscles relaxed. Thiswasn't the right moment, he knew-but it was the right hand. All the cards werehere, now-Luke, Han, Leia, Chewbacca´and old Wild Card Lando. He just didn'twant Leia revealing the hand before all the bets were out. The stakes were just toohigh.
　　In the pit below, Luke picked himself up off the floor. He found he was now ina large cavelike dungeon, the walls formed of craggy boulders pocked with lightlesscrevices. The half-chewed bones of countless animals were strewn over the floor,smelling of decayed flesh and twisted fear.
　　Twenty-five feet above him, in the ceiling, he saw the iron grating through whichJabba's repugnant courtiers peered.
　　The guard beside him suddenly began to scream uncontrollably, as a door in theside of the cave slowly rumbled open. With infinite calm, Luke surveyed hissurroundings as he removed his long robe down to his Jedi tunic, to give him morefreedom of movement. He backed quickly to the wall and crouched there, watching.
　　Out of the side passage emerged the giant Rancor. The size of an elephant, itwas somehow reptilian, somehow as unformed as a nightmare. Its huge screechingmouth was asymmetrical in its head, its fangs and claws set all out of proportion. Itwas clearly a mutant, and wild as all unreason.
　　The guard picked up the pistol from the dirt where it had fallen and began firinglaser bursts at the hideous monster. This only made the beast angrier. It lumberedtoward the guard.
　　The guard kept firing. Ignoring the laser blasts, the beast grabbed the hystericalguard, popped him into its slavering jaws, and swallowed him in a gulp. Theaudience above cheered, laughed, and threw coins.
　　The monster then turned and started for Luke. But the Jedi Knight leaped eightmeters straight up and grabbed onto the overhead grate. The crowd began to boo.Hand over hand, Luke traversed the grating toward the corner of the cave, strugglingto maintain his grip as the audience jeered his efforts. One hand slipped on the oilygrid, and he dangled precariously over the baying mutant.
　　Two jawas ran across the top of the grate. They mashed Luke's fingers withtheir rifle butts; once again, the crowd roared its approval.
　　The Rancor pawed at Luke from below, but the Jedi dangled just out of reach.Suddenly Luke released his hold and dropped directly onto the eye of the howlingmonster; he then tumbled to the floor.
　　The Rancor screamed in pain and stumbled, swatting its own face to knock awaythe agony. It ran in circles a few times, then spotted Luke again and came at him.Luke stooped down to pick up the long bone of an earlier victim. He brandished itbefore him. The gallery above thought this was hilarious and hooted in delight.
　　The monster grabbed Luke and brought him up to its salivating mouth. At thelast moment, though, Luke wedged the bone deep in the Rancor's mouth and jumpedto the floor as the beast began to gag. The Rancor bellowed and flailed about,running headlong into a wall. Several rocks were dislodged, starting an avalanchethat nearly buried Luke, as he crouched deep in a crevice near the floor. The crowdclapped in unison.
　　Luke tried to clear his mind. Fear is a great cloud, Ben used to tell him. Itmakes the cold colder and the dark darker; but let it rise and it will dissolve. SoLuke let it rise past the clamor of the beast above him, and examined ways he mightturn the sad creature's rantings on itself.
　　It was not an evil beast, that much was clear. Had it been purely malicious, itswickedness could easily have been turned on itself-for pure evil, Ben had said, wasalways self-destructive in the end. But this monster wasn't bad-merely dumb andmistreated. Hungry and in pain, it lashed out at whatever came near. For Luke tohave looked on that as evil would only have been a projection of Luke's own darkeraspects-it would have been false, and it certainly wouldn't have helped him out ofthis situation.
　　No, he was going to have to keep his mind clear-that was all-and just outwitthe savage brute, to put it out of its misery.
　　Most preferable would have been to set it loose in Jabba's court, but that seemedunlikely. He considered, next, giving the creature the means to do itself in-to endits own pain. Unfortunately, the creature was far too angered to comprehend thesolace of the void. Luke finally began studying the specific contours of the cave, totry to come up with a specific plan.
　　The Rancor, meanwhile, had knocked the bone from its mouth and, enraged, wasscrabbling through the rubble of fallen rocks, searching for Luke. Luke, though hisvision was partially obscured by the pile that still sheltered him, could see now pastthe monster, to a holding cave beyond-and beyond that, to a utility door. If only hecould get to it.
　　The Rancor knocked away a boulder and spotted Luke recoiling in the crevice.Voraciously, it reached in to pluck the boy out. Luke grabbed a large rock andsmashed it down on the creature's finger as hard as he could. As the Rancor jumped,howling in pain once more, Luke ran for the holding cave.
　　He reached the doorway and ran in. Before him, a heavy barred gate blockedthe way. Beyond this gate the Rancor's two keepers sat eating dinner. They lookedup as Luke entered, then stood and walked toward the gate.
　　Luke turned around to see the monster coming angrily after him. He turnedback to the gate and tried to open it. The keepers poked at him with theirtwo-pronged spears, jabbed at him through the bars, laughing and chewing their food,as the Rancor drew closer to the young Jedi.
　　Luke backed against the side wall, as the Rancor reached in the room for him.Suddenly he saw the restraining-door control panel halfway up the opposite wall.The Rancor began to enter the holding room, closing for the kill, when all at onceLuke picked up a skull off the floor and hurled it at the panel.
　　The panel exploded in a shower of sparks, and the giant iron overhead restrainingdoor came crashing down on the Rancor's head, crushing it like an axe smashingthrough a ripe watermelon.
　　Those in the audience above gasped as one, then were silent. They were alltruly stunned at this bizarre turn of events. They all looked to Jabba, who wasapoplectic with rage. Never had he felt such fury. Leia tried to hide her delight,but was unable to keep from smiling, and this increased Jabba's anger even further.Harshly he snapped at his guards: "Get him out of there. Bring me Solo and theWookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage."
　　In the pit below, Luke stood calmly as several of Jabba's henchmen ran in,clapped him in bonds, and ushered him out.
　　The Rancor keeper wept openly and threw himself down on the body of his deadpet. Life would be a lonely proposition for him from that day.
　　Han and Chewie were led before the steaming Jabba. Han still squinted andstumbled every few feet. Threepio stood behind the Hutt, unbearable apprehensive.Jabba kept Leia on a short tether, stroking her hair to try to calm himself. A constantmurmuring filled the room, as the rabble speculated on what was going to happen towhom.
　　With a flurry, several guards-including Lando Calrissian-dragged Luke inacross the room. To give them passage, the courtiers parted like an unruly sea.When Luke, too, was standing before the throne, he nudged Solo with a smile."Good to see you again, old buddy."
　　Solo's face lit up. There seemed to be no end to the number of friends he keptbumping into. "Luke! Are you in this mess now, too?"
　　"Wouldn't miss it," Skywalker smiled. For just a moment, he almost felt like aboy again.
　　"Well, how we doing?" Han raised his eyebrows.
　　"Same as always," said Luke.
　　"Oh-oh," Solo replied under his breath. He felt one hundred percent relaxed.Just like old times-but a second later, a bleak thought chilled him.
　　"Where's Leia? Is she´"
　　her eyes had been fixed on him from the moment he'd entered the room,though-guarding his spirit with her own. When he spoke of her now, sheresponded instantly, calling from her place on Jabba's throne. "I'm all right, but Idon't know how much longer I can hold off your slobbering friend, here." She wasintentionally cavalier, to put Solo at ease. Besides, the sight of all her friends thereat once made her feel nearly invincible. Han, Luke Chewie, Lando-even Threepiowas skulking around somewhere, trying to be forgotten. Leia almost laughed outloud, almost punched Jabba in the nose. She could barely restrain herself. Shewanted to hug them all.
　　Suddenly Jabba shouted; the entire room was immediately silent. "Talkdroid!"
　　Timidly, Threepio stepped forward and with an embarrassed, self-effacing headgesture, addressed the captives. "His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, hasdecreed that you are to be terminated immediately.
　　Solo said loudly, "That's good, I hate long waits´"
　　"Your extreme offense against His Majesty," Threepio went on, "demands themost torturous form of death´"
　　"No sense in doing things halfway," Solo cracked. Jabba could be so pompous,sometimes, and now with old Goldenrod, there, making his pronouncements´
　　No matter what else, Threepio simply hated being interrupted. He collectedhimself, nonetheless, and continued. "You will be taken to the Dune Sea, where youwill be thrown into the Great Pit of Carkoon-"
　　Han shrugged, then turned to Luke. "That doesn't sound too bad."
　　Threepio ignored the interruption. "´the resting place of the all-powerfulSarlacc. In his belly you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as youslowly digest for a thousand years."
　　"On second thought we could pass on that," Solo reconsidered. A thousandyears was a bit much.
　　Chewie barked his whole-hearted agreement.
　　Luke only smiled. "You should have bargained, Jabba. This is the lastmistake you'll ever make." Luke was unable to suppress the satisfaction in his voice.He found Jabba despicable-a leech of the galaxy, sucking the life from whatever hetouched. Luke wanted to burn the villain, and so was actually rather glad Jabba hadrefused to bargain-for now Luke would get his wish precisely. Of course, hisprimary objective was to free his friends, whom he loved dearly; it was this concernthat guided him now, above all else. But in the process, to free the universe of thisgangster slug-this was a prospect that tinted Luke's purpose with an ever-so-slightlydark satisfaction.
　　Jabba chortled evilly. "Take them away." At last, a bit of pure pleasure on anotherwise dreary day-feeding the Sarlacc was the only thing he enjoyed as much asfeeding the Rancor. Poor Rancor.
　　A loud cheer rose from the crowd as the prisoners were carried off. Leia lookedafter them with great concern; but when she caught a glimpse of Luke's face she wasstirred to see it still fixed in a broad, genuine smile. She sighed deeply, to expel herdoubts.
　　Jabba's giant antigravity Sail Barge glided slowly over the endless Dune Sea.Its sand-blasted iron hull creaked in the slight breeze, each puff of wind coughing intothe two huge sails as if even nature suffered some terminal malaise wherever it camenear Jabba. He was belowdecks, now, with most of his court, hiding the decay of hisspirit from the cleansing sun.
　　Alongside the barge, two small skiffs floated in formation-one an escort craft,bearing six scruffy soldiers; the other, a gun skiff, containing the prisoners: Han,Chewie, Luke. They were all in bonds, and surrounded by armed guards-Barada,two Weequays. And Lando Calrissian.
　　Barada was the no-nonsense sort, and not likely to let anything get out of hand.He carried a long-gun as if he wanted nothing more than to hear it speak.
　　The Weequays were an odd sort. They were brothers, leathery and bald savefor a tribal top-knot, braided and worn to the side. No one was certain whetherWeequay was the name of their tribe, or their species; or whether all in their tribewere brothers, or all were named Weequays. It was known only that these two werecalled by this name, and that they treated all other creatures indifferently. With eachother they were gentle, even tender; but like Barada, they seemed anxious for theprisoners to misbehave.
　　And Lando, of course, remained silent, ready-waiting for an opportunity. Thisreminded him of the lithium scam he'd run on Pesmenben IV-they'd salted thedunes there with lithium carbonate, to con this Imperial governor into leasing theplanet. Lando, posing as a nonunion mine guard, had made the governor lie facedown in the bottom of the boat and throw his bribe overboard when the "unionofficials" raided them. They'd gotten away scot-free on that one; Lando expectedthis job would go much the same, except they might have to throw the guardsoverboard as well.
　　Han kept his ear tuned, for his eyes were still useless. He spoke with recklessdisregard, to put the guards at ease-to get them used to his talking and moving, sowhen the time came for him really to move, they'd be a critical fraction behind hismark. And, of course-as always-he spoke just to hear himself speak.
　　"I think my sight is getting better," he said, squinting over the sand. "Instead ofbig dark blur, I see a big bright blur."
　　"Believe me, you're not missing anything." Luke smiled. "I grew up here."
　　Luke thought of his youth on Tatooine, living on his uncle's farm, cruising in hissouped-up landspeeder with his few friends-sons of other settlers, sitting their ownlonely outposts. Nothing ever to do here, really, for man or boy, but cruise themonotonous dunes and try to avoid the peevish Tusken Raiders who guarded the sandas if it were gold-dust. Luke knew this place.
　　He'd met Obi-wan Kenobi, here-old Ben Kenobi, the hermit who'd lived in thewilderness since nobody knew when. The man who'd first shown Luke the way ofthe Jedi.
　　Luke thought of him now with great love, and great sorrow. For Ben was, morethan anyone, the agent of Luke's discoveries and losses-and discoveries of losses.
　　Ben had taken Luke to Mos Eisley, the pirate city on the western face of Tatooine,to the cantina where they'd first met Han Solo, and Chewbacca the Wookiee. Takenhim there after Imperial stormtroopers had murdered Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru,searching for the fugitive droids, Artoo and Threepio.
　　That's how it had all started for Luke, here on Tatooine. Like a recurring dreamhe knew this place; and he had sworn then that he would never return.
　　"I grew up here," he repeated softly.
　　"And now we're going die here," Solo replied.
　　"I wasn't planning on it," Luke shook himself out of his reverie.
　　"If this is your big plan, so far I'm not crazy about it."
　　"Jabba's palace was too well guarded. I had to get you out of there. Just stayclose to Chewie and Lando. We'll take care of everything."
　　"I can hardly wait." Solo had a sinking feeling this grand escape depended onLuke's thinking he was a Jedi-a questionable premise at best, considering it was anextinct brotherhood that had used a Force he didn't really believe in anyway. A fastship and a good blaster are what Han believed in, and he wished he had them now.
　　Jabba sat in the main cabin of the Sail Barge, surrounded by his entire retinue.The party at the palace was simply continuing, in motion-the result being a slightlywobblier brand of carousing-more in the nature of a prelynching celebration. Soblood lust and belligerence were testing new levels.
　　Threepio was way out of his depth. At the moment, he was being forced totranslate an argument between Ephant Mon and Ree-Yees, concerning a point ofquark warfare that was marginally beyond him. Ephant Mon, a bulky uprightpachydermoid with an ugly, betusked snout, was taking (to Threepio's way ofthinking) an untenable position. However, on his shoulder sat Salacious Crumb, theinsane little reptilian monkey who had the habit of repeating verbatim everythingEphant said, thereby effectively doubling the weight of Ephant's argument.
　　Ephant concluded the oration with a typically bellicose avowal. "Woossiejawamba boog!"
　　Threepio didn't really want to translate this to Ree-Yees, the three-eyed goat-facewho was already dunk as a spicer, but he did.
　　All three eyes dilated in fury. "Backawa! Backawa!" Without furtherpreamble, he punched Ephant Mon in the snout, sending him flying into a school ofSquid Heads.
　　See-Threepio felt this response needed no translation, and took the opportunity toslip to rear-where he promptly bumped into a small droid serving drinks. Thedrinks spilled everywhere.
　　The stubby little droid let out a fluent series of irate beeps, toots, andwhistles-recognizable to Threepio instantly. He looked down in utter relief."Artoo! What are you doing here?"
　　"doooWEEp chWHRrrrree bedzhng."
　　"I can see you're serving drinks. But this place is dangerous. They're goingto execute Master Luke, and if we're not careful, us too!"
　　Artoo whistled-a bit nonchalantly, as far as Threepio was concerned. "I wishI had your confidence," he replied glumly.
　　Jabba chuckled to see Ephant Mon go down-he loved a good beating. Heespecially loved to see strength crumble, to see the proud fall.
　　He tugged, with his swollen fingers, on the chain attached to Princess Leia'sneck. The more resistance he met with, the more he drooled-until he'd drawn thestruggling, scantily-clad princess close to him once more.
　　"Don't stay too far, my lovely. Soon you will begin to appreciate me." Hepulled her very near and forced her to drink from his glass.
　　Leia opened her mouth and she closed her mind. It was disgusting, of course;but there were worse things, and in any case, this wouldn't last.
　　The worse things she knew well. Her standard of comparison was the nightshe'd been tortured by Darth Vader. She had almost broken. The Dark Lord neverknew how close he'd come to extracting the information he wanted from her, thelocation of the Rebel base. He had captured her just after she'd managed to sendArtoo and Threepio for help-captured her, taken her to the Death Star, injected herwith mind-weakening chemicals´and tortured her.
　　Tortured her body first, with his efficient pain-droids. Needles, pressure points,fire-knives, electrojabbers. She'd endured these pains, as she now endured Jabba'sloathsome touch-with a natural, inner strength.
　　She slid a few feet away from Jabba, now, as his attention wasdistracted-moved to peer out the slats in the louvered windows, to squint through thedusty sunlight at the skiff on which her rescuers were being carried.
　　It was stopping.
　　The whole convoy was stopping, in fact, over a huge sand pit. The Sail Bargemoved to one side of the giant depression, with the escort skiff. The prisoner's skiffhovered directly over the pit, though, perhaps twenty feet in the air.
　　At the bottom of the deep cone of sand, a repulsive, mucus-lined, pink,membranous hole puckered, almost unmoving. The hole was eight feet in diameter,its perimeter clustered with three rows of inwardly-directed needle-sharp teeth. Sandstuck to the mucus that lined the sides of the opening, occasionally sliding into theblack cavity at the center.
　　This was the mouth of the Sarlacc.
　　An iron plank was extended over the side of the prisoners' skiff. Two guardsuntied Luke's bonds and shoved him gruffly out onto the plank, straight above theorifice in the sand, now beginning to undulate in peristaltic movement and salivatewith increased mucus secretion as it smelled the meat it was about to receive.
　　Jabba moved his party up to the observation deck.
　　Luke rubbed his wrists to restore circulation. The heat shimmering off thedesert warmed his soul-for finally, this would always be his home. Born and bredin a Bantha patch. He saw Leia standing at the rail of the big barge, and winked.She winked back.
　　Jabba motioned Threepio to his side, then mumbled orders to the golden droid.Threepio stepped up to the comlink. Jabba raised his arm, and the whole motleyarray of intergalactic pirated fell silent. Threepio's voice arose, amplified by theloudspeaker.
　　"His Excellency hopes you will die honorably," Threepio announced mislaid thecorrect program. Nonetheless, he was a droid, his functions well delineated.Translation only, no free will please. He shook his head and continued. "Butshould any of you wish to beg for mercy, Jabba will now listen to your pleas."
　　Han stepped forward to give the bloated slime pot his last thoughts, in case allelse failed. "You tell that slimy piece of worm-ridden filth-"
　　Unfortunately, Han was facing into the desert, away from the Sail Barge.Chewie reached over and turned Solo around, so he was now properly facing thepiece of worm-ridden filth he was addressing.
　　Han nodded, without stopping, "-worm-ridden filth he'll get no such pleasurefrom us."
　　Chewie made a few growly noises of general agreement.
　　Luke was ready. "Jabba, this is your last chance," he shouted. "Free us ordie." He shot a quick look to Lando, who moved unobtrusively toward the back ofthe skiff. This was it, Lando figured-they'd just toss the guards overboard and takeoff under everyone's nose.
　　The monsters on the barge roared with laughter. Artoo, during this commotion,rolled silently up the ramp to the side of upper deck.
　　Jabba raised his hand, and his minions were quiet. "I'm sure you're right, myyoung Jedi friend," he smiled. Then he turned his thumb down. "Put him in."
　　The spectators cheered, as Luke was prodded to the edge of the plank byWeequay. Luke looked up at Artoo, standing alone by the rail, and flipped the littledroid a jaunty salute. At that prearranged signal, a flap slid open in Artoo's domedhead, and a projectile shot high into the air and curved in a gentle arc over the desert.
　　Luke jumped off the plank; another bloodthirsty cheer went up. In less than asecond, though, Luke had spun around in freefall, caught the end of the plank with hisfingertips. The thin metal bent wildly from his weight, paused near to snapping,then catapulted him up. In mid-air he did a complete flip and dropped down in themiddle of the plank-the spot he'd just left, only now behind the confused guards.Casually, he extended his arm to his side, palm up-and suddenly, his lightsaber,which Artoo had shot sailing toward him, dropped neatly into his open hand.
　　With Jedi speed, Luke ignited his sword and attacked the guard at the skiff-edgeof the plank, sending him, screaming, overboard into the twitching mouth of theSarlacc.
　　The other guards swarmed toward Luke. Grimly he waded into them,lightsaber flashing.
　　His own lightsaber-not his father's. He had lost his father's in the duel withDarth Vader in which he'd lost his hand as well. Darth Vader, who had told Luke hewas his father.
　　But this lightsaber Luke had fashioned himself, in Obi-wan Kenobi's abandonedhut on the other side of Tatooine-made with the old Master Jedi's tools and parts,made with love and craft and dire need. He wielded it now as if it were fused to hishand; as if it were an extension of his own arm. This lightsaber, truly, was Luke's.
　　He cut through the onslaught like a light dissolving shadow.
　　Lando grappled with the helmsman, trying to seize the controls of the skiff.The helmsman's laser pistol fired, blasting the nearby panel; and the skiff lurched tothe side, throwing another guard into the pit, knocking everyone else into a pile on thedeck. Luke picked himself up and ran toward the helmsman, lightsaber raised. Thecreature retreated at the overpowering sight, stumbled´and he, too, went over theedge, into the maw.
　　The bewildered guard landed in the soft, sandy slope of the pit and began aninexorable slide down toward the toothy, viscous opening. He clawed desperately atthe sand, screaming. Suddenly a muscled tentacle oozed out of the Sarlacc's mouth,slithered up the caked sand, coiled tightly around the helmsman's ankle, and pulledhim into the hole with a grotesques slurp.
　　All this happened in a matter of seconds. When he saw what was happening,Jabba exploded in a rage, and yelled furious commands at those around him. In amoment, there was general uproar, with creatures running through every door. Itwas during this directionless confusion that Leia acted.
　　She jumped onto Jabba's throne, grabbed the chain, which enslaved her, andwrapped it around his bulbous throat. Then she dove off the other side of thesupport, pulling the chain violently in her grasp. The small metal rings buriedthemselves in the loose folds of the Hutt's neck, like a garrote.
　　With a strength beyond her own strength, she pulled. He bucked with his hugetorso, nearly breaking her fingers, nearly yanking her arms from their sockets. Hecould get no leverage, his bulk was too unwieldy. But just his sheer mass wasalmost enough to break any mere physical restraint.
　　Yet Leia's hold was not merely physical. She closed of her eyes, closed out thepain in her hands, focused all of her life-force-and all it was able to channel-intosqueezing the breath from the horrid creature.
　　She pulled, she sweated, she visualized the chain digging millimeter bymillimeter deeper into Jabba's windpipe-as Jabba wildly thrashed, frantically twistedfrom this least expected of foes.
　　With a last gasping effort, Jabba tensed every muscle and lurched forward. Hisreptilian eyes began to bulge from their sockets as the chain tightened; his oily tongueflopped from his mouth. His thick tail twitched in spasms of effort, until he finallylay still-deadweight.
　　Leia sat about trying to free herself from the chain at her neck, while outside, thebattle began to rage.
　　Boba Fett ignited his rocket pack, leaped into the air, and with a single effortflew down from the barge to the skiff just as Luke finished freeing Han and Chewiefrom their bonds. Boba aimed his laser gun at Luke, but before he could fire, theyoung Jedi spun around, sweeping his lightsword in an arc that sliced the bountyhunter's gun in half.
　　A series of blasts suddenly erupted from the large cannon on the upper deck ofthe barge, hitting the skiff broadside, and rocking it forty degrees askew. Landograbbed a broken strut and dangled desperately above the Sarlacc. Thisdevelopment was definitely not in his game plan, and he vowed to himself neveragain to get involved in a con that he didn't run from start to finish.
　　The skiff took another direct hit from the barge's deck gun, throwing Chewie andHan against the rail. Wounded, the Wookiee howled in pain. Luke looked over athis hairy friend; whereupon Boba Fett, taking advantage of that moment of distraction,fired a cable from out of his armored sleeve.
　　The cable wrapped itself several times around Luke, pinning his arms to his sides,his sword arm now free only from the wrist down. He bent his wrist, so thelightsaber pointed straight up´and then spun toward Boba along the cable. In amoment, the lightsaber touched the end of the wire lasso, cutting through it instantly.Luke shrugged the cable away, just as another blast hit the skiff, knocking Bobaunconscious to the deck. Unfortunately this explosion also dislodged the strut fromwhich Lando was hanging, sending him careening into the Sarlacc pit. Luke wasshaken by the explosion, but unhurt. Lando hit the sandy slope, shouted for help,and tried to scramble out. The loose sand only tumbled him deeper toward thegaping hole. Lando closed his eyes and tried to think of all the ways he might givethe Sarlacc a thousand years of indigestion. He bet himself three to two he couldoutlast anybody else in the creature's stomach. Maybe if he talked that last guard outof his uniform´
　　"Don't move!" Luke screamed, but his attention was immediately diverted by theincoming second skiff, full of guards firing their weapons.
　　It was a Jedi rule-of-thumb, but it took the soldiers in the second skiff by surprise:when outnumbered, attack. This drives the force of the enemy in toward himself.Luke jumped directly into the center of the skiff and immediately began decimatingthem in their midst with lightning sweeps of his lightsaber.
　　Back in the other boat, Chewie tried to untangle to his feet. Chewie barked athim, trying to direct him toward a spear lying loose on the deck.
　　Lando screamed, starting to slide closer to the glistening jaws. He was agambling man, but he wouldn't have taken long odds on his chances of escape rightnow.
　　"Don't move, Lando!" Han called out. "I'm coming!" Then, to Chewie:"Where is it, Chewie?" He swung his hands frantically over the deck as Chewiegrowled directions, guiding Solo's movements. At last, Han locked onto the spear.
　　Boba Fett stumbled up just then, still a little dizzy from the exploding shell. Helooked over at the other skiff, where Luke was in a pitched battle with six guards.With one hand Boba steadied himself on the rail; with the other he aimed his weaponat Luke.
　　Chewie barked at Han.
　　"Which way?" shouted Solo. Chewie barked.
　　The blinded space pirate swung his long spear in Boba's direction. Instinctively,Fett blocked the blow with his forearm; again, he aimed at Luke. "Get out of myway, you blind fool," he cursed Solo.
　　Chewie barked frantically. Han swung his spear again, this time in the oppositedirection, landing the hit squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.
　　The impact caused the rocket to ignite. Boba blasted off unexpectedly, shootingover the second skiff like a missile and ricocheting straight down into the pit. Hisarmored body slid quickly past Lando and rolled without pause into the Sarlacc'smouth.
　　"Rrgrrowrrbroo fro bo," Chewie growled.
　　"He did?" Solo smiled. "I wish I could have seen that-"
　　A major hit from the barge deck gun flipped the skiff on its side, sending Hanand almost everything else overboard. His foot caught on the railing, though,leaving him swinging precariously above the Sarlacc. The wounded Wookieetenaciously held on to the twisted debris astern.
　　Luke finished going through his adversaries on the second skiff, assessed theproblem quickly, and leaped across the chasm of sand to the sheer metal side of thehuge barge. Slowly, he began a hand-over-hand climb up the hull, toward the deckgun.
　　Meanwhile, on the observation deck, Leia had been intermittently struggling tobreak the chain, which bound her to the dead gangster, and hiding behind his massivecarcass whenever some guard ran by. She stretched her full length, now, trying toretrieve a discarded laser pistol-to no avail. Fortunately, Artoo at last came to herrescue, after having first lost his bearings and rolled down the wrong plank.
　　He zipped up to her finally, extended a cutting appendage from the side of hiscasing, and sliced through her bonds.
　　"Thanks, Artoo, good work. Now let's get out of here."
　　They raced for the door. On the way, they passed Threepio, lying on the floor,screaming, as a giant, tuberous hulk named Hermi Odle sat on him. SalaciousCrumb, the reptilian monkey-monster, crouched by Threepio's head, picking out thegolden droid's right eye.
　　"No! No! Not my eyes!" Threepio screamed.
　　Artoo sent a bolt of charge into Hermi Odle's backside, sending him wailingthrough a window. A similar flash blasted Salacious to the ceiling, from which hedidn't come down. Threepio quickly rose, his eye dangling from a sheaf of wires;then he and Artoo hurriedly followed Leia out the back door.
　　The deck gun blasted the tilting skiff once more, shaking out virtually everythingthat remained inside except Chewbacca. Desperately holding on with his injuredarm, he was stretching over the rail, grasping the ankle of the dangling Solo, who was,in turn, sightlessly reaching down for the terrified Calrissian. Lando had managed tostop his slippage by lying very still. Now, every time he reached up for Solo'soutstretched arm, the loose sand slid him a fraction closer to the hungry hole. Hesure hoped Solo wasn't still holding that silly business back on Bespin against him.
　　Chewie barked another direction at Han.
　　"Yeah, I know, I can see a lot better now-it must be all the blood rushing to myhead."
　　"Great," Lando called up. "Now could you just grow a few inches taller?"
　　The deck gunners on the barge were lining up this human chain in their sights forthe coup de grace, when Luke stepped in front of them, laughing like a pirate king.He lit his lightsaber before they could squeeze off a shot; a moment later they weresmoking corpses.
　　A company of guards suddenly rushed up the steps from the lower decks, firing.One of the blasts shot Luke's lightsaber from his hand. He ran down the deck, butwas quickly surrounded. Two of the soldiers manned the deck gun again. Lukelooked at his hand; the mechanism was exposed-the complex steel-and-circuitconstruction that replaced his real hand, which Vader had cut off in their lastencounter.
　　He flexed the mechanism; it still worked.
　　The deck gunners fired at the skiff below. It hit to the side of the small boat.The shock wave almost knocked Chewie loose, but in tipping the boat further, Hanwas able to grab onto Lando's wrist.
　　"Pull!" Solo yelled at the Wookiee.
　　"I'm caught!" screamed Calrissian. He looked down in panic to see one of theSarlacc's tentacles slowly wrap around his ankle. Talk about a wild card-they keptchanging the rules every five minutes in this game. Tentacles! What kind of oddswas anybody gonna give on tentacles? Very long, he decided with a fatalistic grunt;long, and sticky.
　　The deck gunners realigned their sights for the final kill, but it was all over forthem before they could fire-Leia had commandeered the second deck gun, at theother end of the ship. With her first shot she blasted the rigging that stood betweenthe two deck guns. With her second shot she wiped out the first deck gun.
　　The explosions rocked the great barge, momentarily distracting the five guardswho surrounded Luke. In that moment he reached out his hand, and the lightsaber,lying on the deck ten feet away, flew into it. He leaped straight up as two guardsfired at him-their laser bolts killed each other. He ignited his blade in the air and,swinging it as he came down, mortally wounded the others.
　　He yelled to Leia across the deck. "Point it down!"
　　She tilted the second deck gun into the deck and nodded to Threepio at the rail.
　　Artoo, beside him, beeped wildly.
　　"I can't, Artoo!" Threepio cried. "It's too far to jump´aaahhh!"
　　Artoo butted the golden droid over the edge, and then stepped off himself,tumbling head over wheel's toward the sand.
　　Meanwhile, the tug-of-war was continuing between the Sarlacc and Solo, withBaron Calrissian as the rope and the prize. Chewbacca held Han's leg, bracedhimself on the rail, and succeeded in pulling a laser pistol out of the wreckage withhis other hand. He aimed the gun toward Lando, then lowered it, barking hisconcern.
　　"He's right!" Lando called out. "It's too far!"
　　Chewbacca gave it to him. He took it with one hand, still holding on to Landowith the other.
　　"Now, wait a second, pal," Lando protested, "I thought you were blind."
　　"I'm better, trust me," Solo assured him.
　　"Do I have a choice? Hey! A little higher, please." He lowered his head.
　　Han squinted´pulled the trigger´and scored a direct hit on the tentacle. Thewormy thing instantly released its grip, slithering back into its own mouth.
　　Chewbacca pulled mightily, drawing first Solo back into the boat-and thenLando.
　　Luke, meantime, gathered Leia up in his left arm; with his right he grabbed ahold of a rope from the rigging of the half blown-down mast, and with his foot kickedthe trigger of the second deck gun-and jumped into the air as the cannon explodedinto the deck.
　　The two of them swung on the swaying rope, all the way down to the empty,hovering escort skiff. Once there, Luke steered it over to the still-listing prison skiff,where he helped Chewbacca, Han, and Lando on board.
　　The Sail Barge continued exploding behind them. Half of it was now on fire.
　　Luke guided the skiff around beside the barge, where See-Threepio's legs couldbe seen sticking straight up out of the sand. Beside them, Artoo-Detoo's periscopewas the only part of his anatomy visible above the dune. The skiff stopped justabove them and lowered a large electromagnet from its compartment in the boat'shelm. With a loud clang, the two droids shot out of the sand and locked to themagnet's plate.
　　"Ow," groaned Threepio.
　　"beeeDoo dwEET!" Artoo agreed.
　　In a few minutes, they were all in the skiff together, more or less in one piece;and for the first time, they looked at one another and realized they were all in the skifftogether, more or less in one piece. There was a great, long moment of hugging,laughing, crying, and beeping. Then someone accidentally squeezed Chewbacca'swounded arm, and he bellowed; and then they all ran about, securing the boat,checking the perimeters, looking for supplies-and sailing away.
　　The great Sail Barge settled slowly in a chain of explosions and violent fires,and-as the little skiff flew quietly off across the desert-disappeared finally in abrilliant conflagration that was only partially diminished by the scorching afternoonlight of Tatooine's twin suns.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  