  

Return of The Jedi
III

　　The sandstorm obscured everything-sight, breath, thought, motion. The roar of italone was disorienting, sounding like it came from everywhere at once, as if theuniverse were composed of noise, and this was its chaotic center.
　　The seven heroes walked step by step through the murky gale, holding on to oneanother so as not to get lost. Artoo was first, following the signal of the homingdevice, which sang to him in a language not garbled by the wind. Threepio camenext, then Leia guiding Han, and finally Luke and Lando, supporting the hobblingWookiee.
　　Artoo beeped loudly, and they all looked up: vague, dark shapes could be seenthrough the typhoon.
　　"I don't know," shouted Han. "All I can see is a lot of blowing sand."
　　"That's all any of us can see," Leia shouted back.
　　"Then I guess I'm getting better."
　　For a few steps, the dark shapes grew darker; and then out of the darkness, theMillennium Falcon appeared, flanked by Luke's X-wing and a two-seater Y-wing.As soon as the group huddled under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind died down tosomething more describable as a severe weather condition. Threepio hit a switch,and the gangplank lowered with a hum.
　　Solo turned to Skywalker. "I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty goodout there."
　　Luke shrugged it off. "I had a lot of help." He started toward his X-wing.
　　Han stopped him, his manner suddenly quieter, even serious. "Thanks forcoming after me, Luke."
　　Luke felt embarrassed for some reason. He didn't know how to respond toanything but a wisecrack from the old pirate. "Think nothing of it," he finally said.
　　"No, I'm thinkin' a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest thing todead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin', it was a big, wide awake Nothin'."
　　A Nothing from which Luke and the others had saved him-put their own livesin great peril at his expense, for no other reason than that´he was their friend. Thiswas a new idea for the cocky Solo-at once terrible and wonderful. There wasjeopardy in this turn of events. It made him feel somehow blinder than before, butvisionary as well. It was confusing. Once, he was alone; now he was a part.
　　That realization made him feel indebted, a feeling he'd always abhorred; onlynow the debt was somehow a new kind of bond, a bond of brotherhood. It was evenfreeing, in a strange way.
　　He was no longer so alone.
　　No longer alone.
　　Luke saw a difference had come over his friend, like a sea change. It was agentle moment; he didn't want to disturb it. So he only nodded.
　　Chewie growled affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, mussing his hair like aproud uncle. And Leia warmly hugged him.
　　They all had great love for Solo, but somehow it was easier to show it by beingdemonstrative to Luke.
　　"I'll see you back at the fleet," Luke called, moving toward his ship.
　　"Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?" Solo nudged.
　　"I have a promise I have to keep first´to an old fried." A very old friend, hesmiled to himself in afterthought.
　　"Well, hurry back," Leia urged. "The entire Alliance should be assembled bynow." She saw something in Luke's face; she couldn't put a name to it, but it scaredher, and simultaneously made her feel closer to him. "Hurry back," she repeated.
　　"I will," he promised. "Come on, Artoo."
　　Artoo rolled toward the X-wing, beeping a farewell to Threepio.
　　"Good-bye, Artoo," Threepio called out fondly. "May the maker bless you.You will watch out for him, won't you, Master Luke?"
　　But Luke and the little droid were already gone, on the far end of the flyer.
　　The others stood without moving for a moment, trying to see their futures in theswirling sand.
　　Lando jarred them awake. "Come on, let's get off this miserable dirt ball."His luck here had been abominable; he hoped to fare better in the next game. Itwould be house rules for a while, he knew; but he might be able to load a few dicealong the way.
　　Solo clapped him on the back. "Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando."
　　"Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the rest of mylife, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner, as later."
　　"He means 'you're welcome." Leia smiled. "We all mean you're welcome."She kissed Han on the cheek to say it personally one more time.
　　They all headed up the ramp of the Falcon. Solo paused just before goinginside and gave the ship a little pat. "You're lookin' good, old girl. I never thoughtI'd live to see you again."
　　He entered at last, closing the hatch behind him.
　　Luke did the same in the X-wing. He strapped himself into the cockpit, startedup the engines, felt the comfortable roar. He looked at his damaged hand: wirescrossed aluminum bones like spokes in a puzzle. He wondered what the solutionwas. Or the puzzle, for that matter. He pulled a black glove over the exposedinfrastructure, set the X-wing's controls, and for the second time in his life, herocketed off his home planet, into the stars.
　　The Super Star Destroyer rested in space above the half-completed Death Starbattle station and its green neighbor, Endor. The Destroyer was a massive ship,attended by numerous smaller warships of various kinds, which hovered or dartedaround the great mother ship like children of different, ages and temperaments:medium range fleet cruisers, bulky cargo vessels, TIE fighter escorts.
　　The main bay of the Destroyer opened, space-silent. An Imperial shuttleemerged and accelerated toward the Death Star, accompanied by four squads offighters.
　　Darth Vader watched their approach on the viewscreen in the control room of theDeath Star. When docking was imminent, he marched out of the command center,followed by Commander Jerjerrod and a phalanx of Imperial stormtroopers, andheaded toward the docking bay. He was about to welcome his master.
　　Vader's pulse and breathing were machine-regulated, so they could not quicken;but something in his chest became more electric around his meetings with theEmperor; he could not say how. A feeling of fullness, unrestrained passion, wildsubmission-all these things were in Vader's heart as he neared his Emperor. Thesethings and more.
　　When he entered the docking bay, thousands of Imperial troops snapped toattention with a momentous clap. The shuttle came to rest on the pod. Its ramplowered like a dragon jaw, and the Emperor's royal guard ran down, red robesflapping, as if they were licks of flame shooting out the mouth to herald the angry roar.They poised themselves at watchful guard in two lethal rows beside the ramp.Silence filled the great hall. At the top of the ramp, the Emperor appeared.
　　Slowly, he walked down. A small man was he, shriveled with age and evil.He supported his bent frame on a gnarled cane and covered himself with a long,hooded robe-much like the robe of the Jedi, only black. His shrouded face was sothin of flesh it was nearly a skull; his piercing yellow eyes seemed to burn through allat which they stared.
　　When the Emperor reached the bottom of the ramp Commander Jerjerrod, hisgenerals, and Lord Vader all kneeled before him. The Supreme Dark Rulerbeckoned to Vader, and began walking down the row of troops.
　　"Rise, my friend. I would talk with you."
　　Vader rose, and accompanied his master. They were followed in procession bythe Emperor's courtiers, the royal guard, Jerjerrod, and the Death Star elite guard,with mixed reverence and fear.
　　Vader felt complete at the Emperor's side. Though the emptiness at his corenever left him, it became a glorious emptiness in the glare of the Emperor's cold light,an exalted void that could encompass the universe. And someday would encompassthe universe´when the Emperor was dead.
　　For that was Vader's final dream. When he'd learned all he could of the darkpower from this evil genius to take that power from, seize it and keep its cold light athis own core-kill the Emperor and devour his darkness, and rule the universe. Rulewith his son at his side.
　　For that was his other dream-to reclaim his boy, to show Luke the majesty ofthis shadow force: why it was so potent, why he'd chosen rightly to follow its path.And Luke would come with him, he knew. That seed was sown. They would ruletogether, father and son.
　　His dream was very close to realization, he could feel it; it was near. Eachevent fell into place, as he'd nudged it, with Jedi subtlety; as he'd pressed, withdelicate dark strength.
　　"The Death Star will be completed on schedule, my master," Vader breathed.
　　"Yes, I know," replied the Emperor. "You have done well, Lord Vader´andnow I sense you wish to continue your search for the young Skywalker."
　　Vader smiled beneath his armored mask. The Emperor always knew the senseof what was in his heart; even if he didn't know the specifics. "Yes, my master."
　　"Patience, my friend," the Supreme Ruler cautioned. "You always haddifficulty showing patience. In time, he will seek you out´and when he does, youmust bring him before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him tothe dark side of the Force."
　　"Yes, my master." Together, they would corrupt the boy-the child of thefather. Great, dark glory. For soon, the old Emperor would die-and though thegalaxy would bend from the horror of that loss, Vader would remain to rule, withyoung Skywalker at his side. As it was always meant to be.
　　The Emperor raised his head a degree, scanning all the possible futures."Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen."
　　He, like Vader, had plans of his own-plans of spiritual violation, themanipulation of lives and destinies. He chuckled to himself, savoring the nearnessof his conquest: the final seduction of the young Skywalker.
　　Luke left his X-wing parked at the edge of the water and carefully picked hisway through the adjoining swamp. A heavy mist hung in layers about him. Junglesteam. A strange insect flew at him from out of a cluster of hanging vines, flutteredmadly about his head, and vanished. In the undergrowth, something snarled. Lukeconcentrated momentarily. The snarling stopped. Luke walked on.
　　He had terribly ambivalent feelings about this place. Dagobah. His place oftests, of training to be a Jedi. This was where he'd truly learned to use the Force, tolet it flow through him to whatever end he directed it. So he'd learned howcaretaking he must be in order to use the Force well. It was walking on light; but toa Jedi it was as stable as an earthen floor.
　　Dangerous creatures lurked in this swamp; but to a Jedi, none were evil.Voracious quicksand mires waited, still as pools; tentacles mingled with the hangingvines. Luke knew them all, now, they were all part of the living planet, each integralto the Force of which he, too, was a pulsing aspect.
　　Yet there were dark things here, as well-unimaginably dark, reflections of thedark corners of his soul. He'd seen these things here. He'd run from them, he'dstruggled with them; he'd even faced them. He'd vanquished some of them.
　　But some still cowered here. These dark things.
　　He climbed around a barricade of gnarled roots, slippery with moss. On theother side, a smooth, unimpeded path led straight in the direction he wanted to go; buthe did not take it. Instead, he plunged once more into the undergrowth.
　　High overhead, something black and flapping approached, then veered away.Luke paid no attention. He just kept walking.
　　The jungle thinned a bit. Beyond the next bog, Luke saw it-the small,strangely-shaped dwelling, its odd little windows shedding a warm yellow light in thedamp rain-forest. He skirted the mire, and crouching low, entered the cottage.
　　Yoda stood smiling inside, his small green hand clutching his walking stick forsupport. "Waiting for you I was," he nodded.
　　He motioned Luke to sit in a corner. The boy was struck by how much morefrail Yoda's manner seemed-a tremor to the hand, a weakness to the voice. It madeLuke afraid to speak, to betray his shock at the old master's condition.
　　"That face you make," Yoda crinkled his tired brow cheerfully. "Look I so badto young eyes?"
　　He tried to conceal his woeful countenance, shifting his position in the crampedspace. "No, Master´of course not."
　　"I do, yes, I do!" the tiny Jedi Master chuckled gleefully. "Sick I've become.Yes. Old and weak." He pointed a crooked finger at his young pupil. "Whennine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not."
　　The creature hobbled over to his bed, still chuckling and, with great effort, laydown. "Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have."
　　Luke shook his head. "You can't die, Master Yoda-I won't let you."
　　"Trained well, and strong with the Force are you-but not that strong! Twilightis upon me, and soon night must fall. That is the way of things´the way of theForce."
　　"But I need your help," Luke insisted. "I want to complete my training." Thegreat teacher couldn't leave him now-there was too much, still, to understand. Andhe'd taken so much from Yoda already, and as yet given back nothing. He had muchhe wanted to share with the old creature.
　　"No more training do you require," Yoda assured him. "Already know you thatwhich you need."
　　"Then I am a Jedi?" Luke pressed. No. He knew he was not, quite.Something still lacked.
　　Yoda wrinkled up his wizened features. "Not yet. One thing remains.Vader´Vader you must confront. Then, only then, a full Jedi you'll be. Andconfront him you will, sooner or later."
　　Luke knew this would be his test, it could not be otherwise. Every quest had itfocus, and Vader was inextricably at the core of Luke's struggle. It was agonizingfor him to put the question to words; but after a long silence, he again spoke to the oldJedi. "Master Yoda-is Darth Vader my father?"
　　Yoda's eyes filled with a weary compassion. This boy was not yet a mancomplete. A sad smile creased his face, he seemed almost to grow smaller in his bed."A rest I need. Yes. A rest."
　　Luke stared at the dwindling teacher, trying to give the old one strength, just bythe force of his love and will. "Yoda, I must know," he whispered.
　　"Your father he is," Yoda said simply.
　　Luke closed his eyes, his mouth, his heart, to keep away the truth of what heknew was true.
　　"Told you, did he?" Yoda asked.
　　Luke nodded, but did not speak. He wanted to keep the moment frozen, toshelter it here, to lock time and space in this room, so it could never escape into therest of the universe with this terrible knowledge, this unrelenting truth.
　　A look of concern filled Yoda's face. "Unexpected this is, and unfortunate-"
　　"Unfortunate that I know the truth?" A bitterness crept into Luke's voice, buthe couldn't decide if it was directed at Vader, Yoda, himself, or the universe at large.
　　Yoda gathered himself up with an effort that seemed to take all his strength."Unfortunate that you rushed to face him-that incomplete your training was´thatnot ready for the burden were you. Obi-wan would have told you long ago, had I lethim´now a great weakness you carry. Fear for you, I do. Fear for you, yes." Agreat tension seemed to pass out of him and he closed his eyes.
　　"Master Yoda, I am sorry." Luke trembled to see the potent Jedi so weak.
　　"I know, but face Vader again you must, and sorry will not help." He leanedforward, and beckoned Luke close to him. Luke crawled over to sit beside hismaster. Yoda continued, his voice increasingly frail. "Remember, a Jedi's strengthflows from the Force. When you rescued your friends, you had revenge in yourheart. Beware of anger, fear, and aggression. The dark side are they. Easily theyflow, quick to join you in a fight. Once you start down the dark path, forever will itdominate your destiny."
　　He lay back in bed, his breathing became shallow. Luke waited quietly, afraidto move, afraid to distract the old one an iota, lest it jar his attention even a fractionfrom the business of just keeping the void at bay.
　　After a few minutes, Yoda looked at the boy once more, and with a maximumeffort, smiled gently, the greatness of his spirit the only thing keeping his decrepitbody alive. "Luke-of the Emperor beware. Do not underestimate his powers, orsuffer your father's fate you will. When gone I am´last of the Jedi will you be.Luke, the Force is strong in your family. Pass on what you´have´learned´" Hebegan to falter, he closed his eyes. "There´is´another´sky´"
　　He caught his breath, and exhaled, his spirit passing from him like a sunny windblowing to another sky. His body shivered once; and he disappeared.
　　Luke sat beside the small, empty bed for over an hour, trying to fathom the depthof this loss. It was unfathomable.
　　His first feeling was one of boundless grief. For himself, for the universe.How could such a one as Yoda be gone forever? It felt like a black, bottomless holehad filled his heart, where the part that was Yoda had lived.
　　Luke had know the passing of old mentor before. It was helplessly sad; andinexorably, a part of his own growing. Is this what coming of age was, then?Watching beloved friends grow old and die? Gaining a new measure of strength ormaturity from their powerful passages?
　　A great weight of hopelessness settled upon him, just as all the lights in the littlecottage flickered out. For several more minutes he sat there, feeling it was the end ofeverything, that all the lights in the universe had flickered out. The last Jedi, sittingin a swamp, while the entire galaxy plotted the last war.
　　A chill came over him, though, disturbing the nothingness into which hisconsciousness had lapsed. He shivered, looked around. The gloom wasimpenetrable.
　　He crawled outside and stood up. Here in the swamp, nothing had changed.Vapor congealed, to drip from dangling roots back into the mire, in a cycle it hadrepeated a million times, would repeated forever. Perhaps there was his lesson. Ifso, it cut his sadness not a whit.
　　Aimlessly he made his way back to where his ship rested. Artoo rushed up,beeping his excited greetings; but Luke was disconsolate, and could only ignore thefaithful little droid. Artoo whistled a brief condolence, then remained respectfullysilent.
　　Luke sat dejectedly on a log, put his head in his hands, and spoke softly tohimself. "I can't do it. I can't go on alone."
　　A voice floated down to him on the dim mist. "Yoda and I will be with youalways." It was Ben's voice.
　　Luke turned around swiftly to see the shimmering image of Obi-wan Kenobistanding behind him. "Ben!" he whispered. There were so many things he wantedto say, they rushed through his mind all in a whirl, like the churning, puffed cargo of aship in a maelstrom. But one question rose quickly to the surface above all theothers. "Why, Ben? Why didn't you tell me?"
　　It was not an empty question. "I was going to tell you when you had completedyour training," the vision of Ben answered. "But you found it necessary to rush offunprepared. I warned you about your impatience." His voice was unchanged, ahint of scolding, a hint of love.
　　"You told me Darth Vader betrayed and murdered my father." The bitternesshe'd felt earlier, with Yoda, had found its focus now on Ben.
　　Ben absorbed the vitriol undefensively, then padded it with instruction. "Yourfather, Anakin, was seduced by the dark side of the Force-He ceased to be AnakinSkywalker, and became Darth Vader. When that happened, he betrayed everythingthat Anakin Skywalker believed in. The good man who was your father wasdestroyed. So what I told you was true´from a certain point of view."
　　"A certain point of view!" Luke rasped derisively. He felt betrayed-by lifemore than anything else, though only poor Ben was available to take the brunt of hisconflict.
　　"Luke," Ben spoke gently, "you're going to find that many of the truth we clingto depend greatly on our point of view."
　　Luke turned unresponsive. He wanted to hold onto his fury, to guard it like atreasure. It was all he had, he would not let it be stolen from him, as everything elsehad been stolen. But already he felt it slipping, softened by Ben's compassionatetouch.
　　"I don't blame you for being angry," Ben coaxed. "If I was wrong in what I did,it certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened to yourfather was my fault´"
　　Luke looked up with sudden acute interest. He'd never heard this and wasrapidly losing his anger to fascination and curiosity-for knowledge was an addictivedrug, and the more he had the more he wanted.
　　As he sat on his stump, increasingly mesmerized, Artoo pedaled over, silent, justto offer a comforting presence.
　　"When I first encountered your father," Ben continued, "he was already a greatpilot. But what amazed me was how strongly the Force was with him. I took itupon myself to train Anakin in the ways of the Jedi. My mistake was thinking Icould be as good a teacher as Yoda. I was not. Such was my foolish pride. TheEmperor sensed Anakin's power, and he lured him to the dark side." He pausedsadly and looked directly into Luke's eyes, as if he were asking for the boy'sforgiveness. "My pride had terrible consequences for the galaxy."
　　Luke was entranced. That Obi-wan's hubris could have caused his father's fallwas horrible. Horrible because of what his father had needlessly become, horriblebecause Obi-wan wasn't perfect, wasn't even a perfect Jedi, horrible because the darkside could strike so close to him, could turn such right so wring. Darth Vader mustyet have a spark of Anakin Skywalker deep inside. "There is still good in him," hedeclared.
　　Ben shook his head remorsefully. "I also thought he could be turned back to thegood side. It couldn't be done. He is more machine, now, than man-twisted, andevil."
　　Luke sensed the underlying meaning in Kenobi's statement, he heard the wordsas a command. He shook his head back at the vision. "I can't kill my own father."
　　"You should not think of that machine as your father." It was the teacherspeaking again. "When I saw what had become of him, I tried to dissuade him, todraw him back from the dark side. We fought´your father fell into a molten pit.When your father clawed his way out of that fiery pool, the change had been burnedinto him forever-he was Darth Vader, without a trace of Anakin Skywalker.Irredeemably dark. Scarred. Kept alive only by machinery and his own blackwill´"
　　Luke looked down at his own mechanical right hand. "I tried to stop him once.I couldn't do it." He would not challenge his father again. He could not.
　　"Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke-but that experience waspart of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value of patience. Hadyou not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you could have finished your traininghere with Yoda. You would have been prepared."
　　"But I had to help my friends."
　　"And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achievedlittle by rushing back prematurely, I fear."
　　Luke's indignation melted, leaving only sadness in its wake. "I found out DarthVader was my father," he whispered.
　　"To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side-theside your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest door-for you, like yourfather. Only, your father was seduced by what he found on the other side of the door,and you have held firm. You're no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strongand patient. And you are ready for your final confrontation."
　　Luke shook his head again, as the implications of the old Jedi's speech becameclear. "I can't do it, Ben."
　　Obi-wan Kenobi's shoulders slumped in defeat. "Then the Emperor has alreadywon. You were our only hope."
　　Luke reached for alternatives. "Yoda said I could train another to´"
　　"The other he spoke of is your twin sister," the old man offered a dry smile."She will find it no easier than you to destroy Darth Vader."
　　Luke was visibly jolted by this information. He stood up to face this spirit."Sister? I don't have a sister."
　　Once again Obi-wan put a gentle inflection in his voice, to soothe the turmoilbrewing in his young friend's soul. "To protect you both against the Emperor, youwere separated when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, that one day, withthe Force on their side, Skywalker's offspring would be a threat to him. For thatreason, your sister has remained safely anonymous."
　　Luke resisted this knowledge at first. He neither needed nor wanted a twin.He was unique! He had no missing parts-save the hand whose mechanicalreplacement he now flexed tightly. Pawn in a castle conspiracy? Cribs mixed,siblings switched and parted and whisked away to different secret lives? Impossible.He knew who he was! He was Luke Skywalker, born to a Jedi-turned-Sithlord,raised on a Tatooine sandfarm by Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru, raised in a life withoutfrills, a hardworking honest pauper-because his mother´his mother´What was itabout his mother? What had she said, who was she? What had she told him? Heturned his mind inward, to a place and time far from the damp soil of Dagobah, to hismother's chamber, his mother and his´sister. His sister´
　　"Leia! Leia is my sister," he exclaimed, nearly falling over the stump.
　　"Your insight serves you well," Ben nodded. He quickly became stern, though."Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They do you credit, but they could be madeto serve the Emperor."
　　Luke tried to comprehend what his old teacher was saying. So muchinformation, so fast, so vital´it almost made him swoon.
　　Ben continued his narrative. "When your father left, he didn't know yourmother was pregnant. Your mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but wewanted to keep you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible. So I took you tolive with my brother Owen, on Tatooine´and your mother took Leia to live as thedaughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan."
　　Luke settled down to hear this tale, as Artoo nestled up beside him, humming ina subaudible register to comfort.
　　Ben, too, kept his voice even, so that the sounds could give solace when thewords did not. "The Organa family was high-born and politically quite powerful inthat system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage-no one knew she'd beenadopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, since Alderaan had longbeen a democracy. Even so, the family continued to be politically powerful, andLeia, following in her foster father's path, became a senator as well. That's not allshe became, of course-she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against thecorrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a vital link forgetting information to the Rebel cause."
　　"That's what she was doing when her path crossed yours-for her foster parentshad always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became desperate."
　　Luke tried sorting through his multiplicity of feelings-the love he'd always feltfor Leia, even from afar, now had a clear basis. But suddenly he was feelingprotective toward her as well, like an older brother-even though, for all he knew, shemight have been his elder by several minutes.
　　"But you can't let her get involved now, Ben," he insisted. "Vader will destroyher." Vader. Their father. Perhaps Leia could resurrect the good in him.
　　"She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, Luke-but theForce is strong with her, as it is with all of your family. That is why her path crossedmine-because the Force in her must be nourished by a Jedi. You're the last Jedi,now, Luke´but she returned to us-to me-to learn, and grow. Because it was herdestiny to learn and grow; and mine to teach."
　　He went on more slowly, each word deliberate, each pause emphatic. "Youcannot escape your destiny, Luke." He locked his eyes on Luke's eyes, and put asmuch of his spirit as he could into the gaze, to leave it forever imprinted on Luke'smind. "Keep your sister's identity secret, for if you fail she is truly our last hope.Gaze on me now, Luke-the coming fight is yours alone, but much will depend on itsoutcome, and it may be that you can draw some strength from my memory. There isno avoiding the battle, though-you can't escape your destiny. You will have to faceDarth Vader again´"

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  