  

Return of The Jedi
V

　　The trees of Endor stood a thousand feet tall. Their trunks, covered with shaggy, rustbark, rose straight as a pillar, some of them as big around as a house, some thin as aleg. Their foliage was spindly, but lush in color, scattering the sunlight in delicateblue-green patterns over the forest floor. 
　　Distributed thickly among these ancient giants was the usual array of woodsyflora-pines of several species, various deciduous forms, variously gnarled and leafy.The groundcover was primarily fern, but so dense in spots as to resemble a gentlegreen sea that rippled softly in the forest breeze.
　　This was the entire moon: verdant, primeval, silent. Light filtered through thesheltering branches like golden ichor, as if the very air were alive. It was warm, andit was cool. This was Endor.
　　The stolen Imperial shuttle sat in a clearing many miles from the Imperiallanding port, camouflaged with a blanket of dead branches, leaves, and mulch. Inaddition the little ship was thoroughly dwarfed by the towering trees. Its steely hullmight have looked incongruous here, had it not been so totally inconspicuous.
　　On the hill adjacent to the clearing, the Rebel contingent was just beginning tomake its way up a steep trail. Leia, Chewie, Han, and Luke led the way, followed insingle file by the raggedy, helmeted squad of the strike team. This unit wascomposed of elite groundfighters of the Rebel Alliance. A scruffy bunch in someways, they'd each been had-picked for initiative, cunning, and ferocity. Some weretrained commandos, some paroled criminals-but they all hated the Empire with apassion that exceeded self-preservation. And they all knew this was the crucial raid.If they failed to destroy the shield generator here, the Rebellion was doomed. Nosecond chances.
　　Consequently, no one had tell them to be alert as they made their way silently upthe forest path. They were, every on, more alert than they had ever been.
　　Artoo-Detoo and See-Threepio brought up the rear of brigade. Artoo's domedpates swiveled 'round and 'round as he went, blinking his sensor lights at theinfinitely tall trees which surrounded them.
　　"Beee-doop!" he commented to Threepio.
　　"No, I don't think it's pretty here," his golden companion replied testily. "Withour luck, it's inhabited solely by droid-eating monsters."
　　The trooper just ahead of Threepio turned around and gave them a harsh"Shush!"
　　Threepio turned back to Artoo, and whispered, "Quiet, Artoo."
　　They were all a bit nervous.
　　Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reached the crest of the hill. They dropped to theground, crawled the last few feet, and peered over the edge. Chewbacca raised hisfeet, and peered over the edge. Chewbacca raised his great paw, signaling the rest ofthe group to stop. All at once, the forest seemed to become much more silent.
　　Luke and Han crawled forward on their bellies, to view what the others wereobserving. Pointing through the ferns, Chewie and Leia cautioned stealth. Not farbelow, in a glen beside a clear pool, two Imperial scouts had set up temporary camp.They were fixing a meal of rations and were preoccupied warming it over a portablecooker. Two speeder bikes were parked nearby.
　　"Should we try to go around?" whispered Leia.
　　"It'll take time," Luke shook his head.
　　Han peeked from behind a rock. "Yeah, and if they catch sight of us and report,this whole party's for nothing."
　　"Is it just the two of them?" Leia still sounded skeptical.
　　"Let's take a look," smiled Luke, with a sigh of tension about to be released; theyall responded with a similar grin. It was beginning.
　　Leia motioned the rest of the squad to remain where they were; then she, Luke,Han, and Chewbacca quietly edged closer to the scout camp.
　　When they were quite near the clearing, but still covered by underbrush, Soloslid quickly to the lead position. "Stay here," he rasped, "Chewie and I will takecare of this." He flashed them his most roguish smile.
　　"Quietly," warned Luke, "there might be-"
　　But before he could finish, Han jumped up with his furry partner and rushed intothe clearing.
　　"-more out there," Luke finished speaking to himself. He looked over at Leia.
　　She shrugged. "What'd you expect?" Some things never changed.
　　Before Luke could respond, though, they were distracted by a loud commotion inthe glen. They flattened to the ground and watched.
　　Han was engaged in a rousing fist fight with one of the scouts-he hadn't lookedso happy in days. The other scout jumped on his speeder bike to escape. But bythe time he'd ignited the engines, Chewie was able to get off a few shots from hiscrossbow laser. The ill-fated scout crashed instantly against an enormous tree; abrief, muffled explosion followed.
　　Leia drew her laser pistol and raced into the battle zone, followed closely byLuke. As soon as they were running clear, though, several large laser blasts went offall around them, tumbling them to the ground. Leia lost her gun.
　　Dazed, they both looked up to see two more Imperial scouts emerge from the farside of the clearing, heading for their speeder bikes hidden in the peripheral foliage.The scouts holstered their pistols as they mounted the bikes and fired up the engines.
　　Leia staggered to her feet, "Over there, two more of them!"
　　"I see 'em," answered Luke, rising. "Stay here."
　　But Leia had ideas of her own. She ran to the remaining rocket speeder,charged it up, and took off in pursuit of the fleeing scouts. As she tore past Luke, hejumped up behind her on the bike, and off the flew.
　　"Quick, center switch," he shouted to her over her shoulder, over the roar of therocket engines. "Jam their comlinks!"
　　As Luke and Leia soared out of the clearing after the Imperials, Han and Chewiewere just subduing the last scout. "Hey, wait!" Solo shouted; but they were gone.He threw his weapon to the ground in frustration, and the rest of the Rebel commandosquad poured over the rise into the clearing.
　　Luke and Leia sped through the dense foliage, a few feet off the ground, Leia atthe controls, Luke grabbing on behind her. The two escaping Imperial scouts had agood lead, but at two hundred miles per hour, Leia was the better pilot-the talent ranin her family.
　　She let off a burst from the speeder's laser cannon periodically, but was still toofar behind to be very accurate. The explosions hit away from the moving targets,splintering trees and setting the shrubbery afire, as the bikes weaved in and outbetween massive, imposing branches.
　　"Move closer!" Luke shouted.
　　Leia opened the throttle, closed the gap. The two scouts sensed their pursuergaining and recklessly veered this way and that, skimming through a narrow openingbetween two trees. One of the bikes scraped the bark, tipping the scout almost out ofcontrol, slowing him significantly.
　　"Get alongside!" Luke yelled into Leia's ear.
　　She pulled her speeder so close to the scout's, their steering vanes scrapedhideously against each other. Luke suddenly leaped from the back of Leia's bike tothe back of the scout's, grabbed the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flipped himoff. The white-armored trooper smashed into a thick trunk with a bone-shatteringcrunch, and settled forever into the sea of ferns.
　　Luke scooted forward to the driver's seat of the speeder bike, played with thecontrols a few seconds, and lurched forward, following Leia, who'd pulled ahead.The two of them now tore after the remaining scout.
　　Over hill and under stonebridge they flew, narrowly avoiding collision, flamingdry vines in their afterburn. The chase swung north and passed a gully where twomore Imperial scouts were resting. A moment later, they swung into pursuit, nowhot on Luke and Leia's tail, blasting away with laser cannon. Luke, still behind Leiatook a glancing blow.
　　"Keep on that one!" he shouted up at her, indicating the scout in the lead. "I'lltake the two behind us!"
　　Leia shot ahead. Luke, at the same instant, flared up his retrorocket, slammingthe bike into rapid deceleration. The two scouts on his tail zipped past him in a bluron either side, unable to slow their momentum. Luke immediately roared into highvelocity again, firing with his blasters, suddenly in pursuit of his pursuers.
　　His third round hit its mark: one of the scouts, blown out of control, wentspinning against a boulder in a rumble of flame.
　　The scout's cohort took a single glance at the flash, and put his bike intosupercharge mode, speeding even faster. Luke kept pace.
　　Far ahead, Leia and the first scout continued their own high-speed slalomthrough the barricades of impassive trunks and low-slung branches. She had tobrake through so many turns, in fact, Leia seemed unable to draw any closer to herquarry. Suddenly she shot into the air, at an unbelievably steep incline, and quicklyvanished from sight.
　　The scout turned in confusion, uncertain whether to relax or cringe at hispursuer's sudden disappearance. Her whereabouts became clear soon enough. Outof the tree-tops, Leia dove down on him, cannon blasting from above. The scout'sbike took the shock wave from a near hit. Her speed was even greater than she'danticipated, and in a moment she was racing alongside him. But before she knewwhat was happening, he reached down and drew a handgun from his holster-andbefore she could react, he fired.
　　Her bike spun out of control. She jumped free just in time-the speederexploded on a giant tree, as Leia rolled clear into a tangle of matted vines, rotting logs,shallow water. The last thing she saw was the orange fireball through a cloud ofsmoking greenery; and then blackness.
　　The scout looked behind him at the explosion, with a satisfied sneer. When hefaced forward again, though, the smug look faded, for he was on a collision coursewith a fallen tree. In a moment it was all over but the flaming.
　　Meanwhile, Luke was closing fast on the last scout. As they wove from tree totree, Luke eased up behind and then drew even with the Imperial rider. The fleeingsoldier suddenly swerved, slamming his bike into Luke's-they both tippedprecariously, barely missing a large fallen trunk in their path. The scout zoomedunder it, Luke over it-and when he came down on the other side, he crashed directlyon top of the scout's vehicle. Their steering vanes locked.
　　The bikes were shaped more or less like one-man sleds, with long thin rodsextending from their snouts, and fluttery ailerons for guidance at the tip of the rods.With these vanes locked, the bikes flew as one, though either rider could steer.
　　The scout banked hard right, to try to smash Luke into an onrushing grove ofsaplings on the right. But at the last second Luke leaned all his weight left, turningthe locked speeders actually horizontal, with Luke on top, the scout on the bottom.
　　The biker scout suddenly stopped resisting Luke's leftward leaning and threw hisown weight in the same direction, resulting in the bikes flipping over three hundredsixty degrees and coming to rest exactly upright once more´but with an enormoustree looming immediately in front of Luke.
　　Without thinking, he leaped from his bike. A fraction of a second later, thescout veered steeply left-the steering vanes separated-and Luke's riderless speedercrashed explosively into the redwood.
　　Luke rolled, decelerating, up a moss-covered slope. The scout swooped high,circled around, and came looking for him.
　　Luke stumbled out of the bushes as the speeder was bearing down on him fullthrottle, laser cannon firing. Luke ignited his lightsaber and stood his ground. Hisweapon deflected every bolt the scout fired at Luke; but the bike kept coming. In afew moments, the two would meet; the bike accelerated even more, intent on bodilyslicing the young Jedi in half. At the last moment, though, Luke steppedaside-with perfect timing, like a master matador facing a rocket-powered a singlemighty slash of his lightsaber.
　　The bike quickly began to shudder; then pitch and roll. In a second it was outof control entirely, and in another second it was a rumbling billow of fire on the forestfloor.
　　Luke snuffed out his lightsaber and headed back to join the others.
　　Vader's shuttle swung around the unfinished portion of the Death Star and settledfluidly into the main docking bay. Soundless bearings lowered the Dark Lord's ramp;soundless were his feet as they glided down the chilly steel. Chill with purpose werehis strides, and swift.
　　The main corridor was filled with courtiers, all awaiting an audience with theEmperor. Vader curled his lip at them-fools, all. Pompous toadys in their velvetrobes and painted faces; perfumed bishops passing notes and passing judgmentsamong themselves-for who else cared; oily favor-merchants, bent low from theweight of jewelry still warm from a previous owner's dying flesh; easy, violent menand women, lusting to be tampered with.
　　Vader had no patience for such petty filth. He passed them without a nod,though many of them would have paid dearly for felicitous glance from the high DarkLord.
　　When he reached the elevator to the Emperor's tower, he found the door closed.Red-robed, heavily armed royal guards flanked the shaft, seemingly unaware ofVader's presence. Out of the shadow, an officer stepped forward, directly in LordVader's path, preventing his further approach.
　　"You may not enter," the officer said evenly.
　　Vader did not waste words. He raised his hand, fingers outstretched, toward theofficer's throat. Ineffably, the officer began to choke. His knees started buckling,his face turned ashen.
　　Gasping for air, he spoke again. "It is the´Emperor's´command."
　　Like a spring, Vader released the man from his remote grip. The officer,breathing again, sank to the floor, trembling. He rubbed his neck gently.
　　"I will await his convenience," Vader said. He turned and looked out of theview window. Leaf-green Endor glowed there, floating black space, almost as if itwere radiant from some internal source of energy. He felt its pull like a magnet, likea vacuum, like a torch in dead night.
　　Han and Chewie crouched opposite each other in the forest clearing, being quiet,being near. The rest of the strike squad relaxed-as much as was possible-spreadout around them in groups of twos and threes. They all waited.
　　Even Threepio was silent. He sat beside Artoo, polishing his fingers for lack ofanything better to do. The others checked their watches, or their weapons, as theafternoon sunlight ticked away.
　　Artoo sat, unmoving except for the little radar screen that stuck out the top of hisblue and silver dome, revolving, scanning the forest. He exuded the calm patienceof a utilized function, a program being run.
　　Suddenly, he beeped.
　　Threepio ceased his obsessive polishing and looked apprehensively into theforest. "Someone's coming," he translated.
　　The rest of the squad faced out; weapons were raised. A twig cracked beyondthe western perimeter. No one breathed.
　　With a weary stride, Luke stepped out of the foliage, into the clearing. Allrelaxed, lowered their guns. Luke was tired to care. He plopped down on the harddirt beside Solo and lay back with an exhausted groan.
　　"Hard day, huh kid?" Han commented.
　　Luke sat up on one elbow, smiling. It seemed like an awful lot of effort andnoise just to nail a couple of Imperial scouts; and they hadn't even gotten to the reallytough part yet. But Han could still maintain his light tone. It was a state of grace,his particular brand of charm. Luke hoped it never vanished from the universe."Wait'll we get to that generator," he retorted in kind.
　　Solo looked around, into the forest Luke had just come from. "Where's Leia?"
　　Luke's face suddenly turned to one of concern. "She didn't come back?"
　　"I thought she was with you," Han's voice marginally rose in pitch and volume.
　　"We got split up," Luke explained. He exchanged a grim look with Solo, thenboth of them slowly stood. "We better look for her."
　　"Don't you want to rest a while?" Han suggested. He could see the fatigue inLuke's face and wanted to spare him for the coming confrontation, which wouldsurely take more strength than any of them had.
　　"I want to find Leia," he said softly.
　　Han nodded, without argument. He signaled to the Rebel officer who wassecond in command of the strike squad. The officer ran up and saluted.
　　"Take the squad ahead," ordered Solo. "We'll rendezvous at the shieldgenerator at 0-30."
　　The officer saluted again and immediately organized the troops. Within aminute they were filing silently into the forest, greatly relieved to be moving at last.
　　Luke, Chewbacca, General Solo, and the two droids faced in the oppositedirection. Artoo led the way, his revolving scanner sensing for all the parametersthat described his mistress; and the others followed him into the woods.
　　The first thing Leia was aware of was her left elbow. It was wet. It was lyingin a pool of water, getting quite soaked.
　　She moved the elbow out of the water with a little splash, revealing somethingelse: pain-pain in her entire arm when it moved. For the time being, she decided tokeep it still.
　　The next thing to enter her consciousness were sounds. The splash her elbowhad made, the rustle of leaves, an occasional bird chirp. Forest sounds. With agrunt, she took a short breath and noted the grunting sound.
　　Smells began to fill her nostrils next: humid mossy smells, leafy oxygen smells,the odor of a distant honey, the vapor of rare flowers.
　　Taste came with smell-the taste of blood on her tongue. She opened andclosed her mouth a few times, to localize where the blood was coming from; but shecouldn't. Instead, the attempt only brought the recognition of new pains-in herhead, in her neck, in her back. She started to move her arms again, but this entaileda whole catalogue of new pains; so once again, she rested.
　　Next she allowed temperature to waft into her sensorium. Sun warmed thefingers of her right hand, while the palm, in shadow, stayed cool. A breeze draftedthe back of her legs. Her left hand, pressed against the skin of her belly, was warm.
　　She felt´awake.
　　Slowly-reticent actually to witness the damage, since seeing things made themreal, and seeing her own broken body was not a reality she wanted toacknowledge-slowly, she opened her eyes. Things were blurry here at ground level.Hazy browns and grays in the foreground, becoming progressively brighter andgreener in the distance. Slowly, things came into focus.
　　Slowly, she saw the Ewok.
　　A strange, small, furry creature, he stood three feet from Leia's face and no morethan three feet tall. He had large, dark, curious, brownish eyes, and stubby littlefinger-paws. Completely covered, head to foot, with soft, brown fur, he looked likenothing so much as the stuffed baby Wookiee doll Leia remembered playing with as achild. In face, when he first saw the creature standing before her, she thought itmerely a dream, a childhood memory rising out of her addled brain.
　　But this wasn't a dream. It was an Ewok. And his name was Wicket.
　　Now was he exclusively cute-for as Leia focused further, she could see a knifestrapped to his waist. It was all he wore, save for a thing leather mantle onlycovering his head.
　　They watched each other, unmoving, for a long minute. The Ewok seemedpuzzled by the princess; uncertain of what she was, or what she intended. At themoment, Leia intended to see if she could sit up.
　　She sat up, with a groan.
　　The sound apparently frightened the little fluffball; he rapidly stumbledbackward, tripped, and fell. "Eeeeep!" he squeaked.
　　Leia scrutinized herself closely, looking for signs of serious damage. Herclothes were torn; she had cuts bruises, and scrapes everywhere-but nothing seemedto be broken or irreparable. On the other hand, she had no idea where she was.She groaned again.
　　That did it for the Ewok. He jumped up, grabbed a four-foot-long spear, andheld it defensively in her direction. Warily, he circled, poking the pointed javelin ather, clearly more fearful than aggressive.
　　"Hey, cut that out," Leia brushed the weapon away with annoyance. That wasall she needed now-to be skewered by a teddy bear. More gently, she added:"I'm not going to hurt you."
　　Gingerly, she stood up, testing her legs. The Ewok backed away with caution.
　　"Don't be afraid," Leia tried to put reassurance into her voice. "I just want tosee what happened to my bike here." She knew the more she talked in this tone, themore at ease it would put the little creature. Moreover, she knew if she was talking,she was doing okay.
　　Her legs were a little unsteady, but she was able to walk slowly over to thecharred remains of the speeder, now lying in a half-melted pile at the base of thepartially blackened tree.
　　Her movement was away from the Ewok, who, like a skittish puppy, took this asa safe sign and followed her to the wreckage. Leia picked the Imperial scout's laserpistol off the ground; it was all that was left of him.
　　"I think I got off at the right time," she muttered.
　　The Ewok appraised the scene with his big, shiny eyes, nodded, shook his head,and squeaked vociferously for several seconds.
　　Leia looked all around her at the dense forest, then sat down, with a sigh, on afallen log. She was at eye-level with the Ewok, now, and they once again regardedeach other, a little concerned. "Trouble is, I'm sort of stuck here," she confided."And I don't even know where here is."
　　She put her head in her hands, partly to mull over the situation, partly to rubsome of the soreness from her temples. Wicket sat down beside her and mimickedher posture exactly-head in paws, elbows on knees-then let out a little sympatheticEwok sigh.
　　Leia laughed appreciatively and scratched the small creature's furry head,between the ears. He purred like a kitten.
　　"You wouldn't happen to have a comlink on you by any chance?" Bigjoke-but she hoped maybe talking about it would give her an idea. The Ewokblinked a few times-but he only gave her a mystified look. Leia smiled. "No, Iguess not."
　　Suddenly Wicket froze; his ears twitched, and he sniffed the air. He tilted hishead in an attitude of keen attention.
　　"What is it?" Leia whispered. Something was obviously amiss. Then sheheard it: a quiet snap in the bushes beyond, a tentative rustling.
　　All at once the Ewok let out a loud, terrified screech. Leia drew her pistol,jumping behind the log; Wicket scurried beside her and squeezed under it. A longsilence followed. Tense, uncertain, Leia trained her senses on the near underbrush.Ready to fight.
　　For all her readiness, she hadn't expected the laser bolt to come from where itdid-high, off to the right. It exploded in front of the log with a shower of light andpine needles. She returned the fire quickly-two short blasts-then just as quicklysensed something behind her. Slowly she swiveled, to find an Imperial scoutstanding over her, his weapon leveled at her head. He reached out his hand for thepistol she held.
　　"I'll take that," he ordered.
　　Without warning, a furry hand came out from under the log and jabbed the scoutin the leg with a knife. The man howled in pain, began jumping about on one foot.
　　Leia dove for his fallen laser pistol. She rolled, fired and hit the scout squarelyin the chest, flash-burning his heart.
　　Quickly the forest was quiet once more, the noise and light swallowed up as ifthey had never been. Leia lay still where she was, panting softly, waiting for anotherattack. None came.
　　Wicket poked his fuzzy head up from under the log, and looked around. "Eeeprrp scrp ooooh," he mumbled in a tone of awe.
　　Leia hopped up, ran all about the area, crouched, turned her head from side toside. It seemed safe for the time being. She motioned to her chubby new friend."Come on, we'd better get out of here."
　　As they moved into the thick flora, Wicket took the lead. Leia was unsure atfirst, but he shrieked urgently at her and tugged her sleeve. So she relinquishedcontrol to the odd little beast and followed him.
　　She cast her mind adrift for a while, letting her feet carry her nimbly alongamong the gargantuan trees. She was struck, suddenly, not by the smallness of theEwok who guided her, but by her own smallness next to these trees. They were tenthousand years old, some of them, and tall beyond sight. They were temples to thelife-force she championed; they reached out to the rest of the universe. She feltherself part of their greatness, but also dwarfed by it.
　　And lonely. She felt lonely here, in this forest of giants. All her life she'dlived among giants of her own people: her father, the great Senator Organa; hermother, then Minister of Education; her peers and friends, giants all´
　　But these trees. They were like mighty exclamation points, announcing theirown preeminence. They were here! They were older than time! They would behere long after Leia was gone, after the Rebellion, after the Empire´
　　And then she didn't feel lonely again, but felt a part again, of these magnificent,poised beings. A part of them across time, and space, connected by the vibrant, vitalforce, of which´
　　It was confusing. A part, and apart. She couldn't grasp it. She felt large andsmall, brave and timid. She felt like a tiny, creative spark, dancing about in the firesof life´dancing behind a furtive, pudgy midget bear, who kept beckoning her deeperinto the woods.
　　It was this, then, that the Alliance was fighting to preserve-furry creatures inmammoth forests helping scared, brave princesses to safety. Leia wished her parentswere alive, so she could tell them.
　　Lord Vader stepped out of the elevator and stood at the entrance to the throneroom. The light-cables hummed either side of the shaft, casting an eerie glow on theroyal guards who waited there. He marched resolutely down the walkway, up thestairs, and paused subserviently behind the throne. He kneeled, motionless.
　　Almost immediately, he heard the Emperor's voice. "Rise. Rise and speak,my friend."
　　Vader rose, as the throne swiveled around, and the Emperor faced him.
　　They made eye contact from light-years and a soul's breath away. Across thatabyss, Vader responded. "My master, a small Rebel force has penetrated the shieldand landed on Endor."
　　"Yes, I know." There was no hint of surprise in his tone; rather, fulfillment.
　　Vader noted this, then went on. "My son is with them."
　　The Emperor's brow furrowed less than a millimeter. His voice remained cool,unruffled, slightly curious. "Are you sure?"
　　"I felt him, my master." It was almost a taunt. He knew the Emperor wasfrightened of young Skywalker, afraid of his power. Only together could Vader andthe Emperor hope to pull the Jedi Knight over to the dark side. He said it again,emphasizing his own singularity. "I felt him."
　　"Strange, that I have not," the Emperor murmured, his eyes becoming slits.They both knew the Force wasn't all-powerful-and no one was infallible with its use.It had everything to do with awareness, with vision. Certainly, Vader and his sonwere more closely linked than was the Emperor with young Skywalker-but, inaddition, the Emperor was now aware of a crosscurrent he hadn't read before, abuckle in the Force he couldn't quite understand. "I wonder if your feelings on thismatter are clear, Lord Vader."
　　"They are clear, my master." He knew his son's presence, it galled him andfueled him and lured him and howled in a voice of its own. "Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for him," Emperor Palpatinesaid simply. As long as things were clear, things were clear.
　　"He will come to me?" Vader asked skeptically. This was not what he felt. Hefelt drawn.
　　"Of his own free will," the Emperor assured him. It must be of his own freewill, else all was lost. A spirit could not be coerced into corruption, it had to beseduced. It had to participate activity. It had to crave. Luke Skywalker knewthese things, and still he circled the black fire, like a cat. Destinies could never beread with absolute certainty-but Skywalker would come, that was clear. "I haveforeseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing." Compassion had alwaysbeen the weak belly of the Jedi, and forever would be. It was the ultimatevulnerability. The Emperor had none. "The boy will come to you, and you willthen bring him before me."
　　Vader bowed low. "As you wish."
　　With casual malice, the Emperor dismissed the Dark Lord. With grimanticipation, Vader strode out of the throne room, to board the shuttle for Endor.
　　Luke, Chewie, Han, and Threepio picked their way methodically through theundergrowth behind Artoo, whose antenna continued to revolve. It was remarkablethe way the little droid was able to blaze a trail over jungle terrain like this, but he didit without fuss, the miniature cutting tools on his walkers and dome slicing neatlythrough anything too dense to push out of the way.
　　Artoo suddenly stopped, causing some consternation on the part of his followers.His radar screen spun faster, he clicked and whirred to himself, then darted forwardwith an excited announcement. "Vrrr dEEp dWP booooo dWEE op!"
　　Threepio raced behind him. "Artoo says the rocket bikes are right up-oh,dear."
　　They broke into the clearing just ahead of the others, but all stopped in a clumpon entering. The charred debris of three speeder bikes was strewn around thearea-not to mention the remains of some Imperial scouts.
　　They spread out to inspect the rubble. Little of note was evident, except a tornpiece of Leia's jacket. Han held it soberly, thinking.
　　Threepio spoke quietly. "Artoo's sensor find no other trace of Princess Leia."
　　"I hope she's nowhere near here, now," Han said to the trees. He didn't want toimagine her loss. After all that had happened, he simply couldn't believe it wouldend this way for her.
　　"Looks like she ran into two of them," Luke said, just to say something. Noneof them wanted to draw any conclusions.
　　"She seems to have done all right," Han responded somewhat tersely. He wasaddressing Luke, but speaking to himself.
　　Only Chewbacca seemed uninterested in the clearing in which they werestanding. He stood facing the dense foliage beyond, then wrinkled his nose, sniffing.
　　"Rahrr!" he shouted, plunging into the thicket. The others rushed after him.
　　Artoo whistled softly, nervously.
　　"Picking up what?" Threepio snapped. "Try to be more specific, would you?"
　　The trees became significantly taller as the group pushed on. Not that it waspossible to see any higher, but the girth of the trunks was increasingly massive. Therest of the forest was thinning a bit in the process, making passage easier, but givingthem the distinct sense that they were shrinking. It was an ominous feeling.
　　All at once the undergrowth gave way again, to yet another open space. At thecenter of this clearing, a huge several shanks of raw meat. The searchers stared, thencautiously walked to the stake.
　　"What's this?" Threepio voiced the collective question.
　　Chewbacca's nose was going wild, in some kind of olfactory delirium. He heldhimself back as long as he could, but was finally unable to resist: he reached out forone of the slabs of meat.
　　"No wait!" shouted Luke. "Don't-"
　　But it was too late. The moment the meat was pulled from the stake, a huge netsprang up all around the adventurers, instantly hoisting them high above the ground,in a twisting jumble of arms and legs.
　　Artoo whistled wildly-he was programmed to hate being upside-down-as theWookiee bayed his regret.
　　Han peeled a hairy paw away from his mouth, spitting fur. "Great, Chewie.Nice work. Always thinking with your stomach-"
　　"Take it easy," called Luke. "Let's just figure out how to get out of this thing."He tried, but was unable, to free his arms; one locked behind him through the net, onepinned to Threepio's leg. "Can anyone reach my lightsaber?"
　　Artoo was bottommost. He extended his cutting appendage and began clippingthe loops of the vinery net.
　　Solo, meantime, was trying to squeeze his arm past Threepio, trying to stretch toreach the lightsaber hanging at Luke's waist. They settled, jerkily, as Artoo cutthrough another piece of mesh, leaving Han pressed face to face with the protocoldroid.
　　"Out of the way, Goldenrod-unh-get off of-"
　　"How do you think I feel?" Threepio charged. There was no protocol in asituation like this.
　　"I don't really-" Han began, but suddenly Artoo cut through the last link, andthe entire group crashed out of the net, to the ground. As they gradually regainedtheir senses, sat up, checked to make certain the others were all safe, one by one theyrealized they were surrounded by twenty furry little creatures, all wearing soft leatherhoods, or caps; all brandishing spears.
　　One came close to Han, pushing a long spear in his face, screeching "eeee wk!"
　　Solo knocked the weapon aside, with a curt directive. "Point that thingsomewhere else."
　　A second Ewok became alarmed, and lunged at Han. Again, he deflected thespear, but in the process got cut on the arm.
　　Luke reached for his lightsaber, but just then a third Ewok ran forward, pushingthe more aggressive ones out of the way, and shrieked a long string of seeminginvective at them, in a decidedly scolding tone. At this, Luke decided to hold off onhis lightsaber.
　　Han was wounded and angry, though. He started to holster, with a look."Don't-it'll be all right," he added. Never confuse ability with appearance, Benused to tell him-or actions with motivations. Luke was uncertain of these littlefurries, but he had a feeling.
　　Han held his arm, and held his peace, as the Ewoks swarmed around,confiscating all their weapons. Luke even relinquished his lightsaber. Chewiegrowled suspiciously.
　　Artoo and Threepio were just extracting themselves from the collapsed net, asthe Ewoks chattered excitedly to each other.
　　Luke turned to the gold droid. "Threepio, can you understand what they'resaying?"
　　Threepio rose from the mesh trap, feeling himself for dents or rattles. "Oh, myhead," he complained.
　　At the sight of his fully upright body, the Ewoks began squeaking amongthemselves, pointing and gesticulating.
　　Threepio spoke to the one who appeared to be the leader. "Chree breeb a shurrdu."
　　"Bloh wreee dbleeop weeschhreee!" answered the fuzzy beast.
　　"Du wee sheess?"
　　"Reeop glwah wrrripsh."
　　"Shreee?"
　　Suddenly one of the Ewoks dropped his spear with a little gasp and prostratedhimself before the shiny droid. In another moment, all the Ewoks followed suit.Threepio looked at his friends with a slightly embarrassed shrug.
　　Chewie let out a puzzled bark. Artoo whirred speculatively. Luke and Hanregarded the battalion of kowtowing Ewoks in wonder.
　　Then, at some invisible signal from one of their group, the small creatures beganto chant in unison: "Eekee whoh, eekee whoh, Rheakee rheekee whoh´"
　　Han looked at Threepio with total disbelief. "What'd you say to them?"
　　" 'Hello,' I think," Threepio replied almost apologetically. He hastened to add,"I could be mistaken, they're using a very primitive dialect´I believe they think I'msome sort of god."
　　Chewbacca and Artoo thought that was very funny. They spent several secondshysterically barking and whistling before they finally managed to quiet down.Chewbacca had to wipe a tear from his eye.
　　Han just shook his head with a galaxy-weary look of patience. "Well howabout using your diving influence to get us out of this?" he suggested solicitously.
　　Threepio pulled himself up to his full height, and spoke with unrelentingdecorum. "I beg your pardon, Captain Solo, but that wouldn't be proper."
　　"Proper!?" Solo roared. He always knew this pompous droid was going to gotoo far with him one day-and this might well be the day.
　　"It's against my programming to impersonate a deity," he replied to Solo, as ifnothing so obvious needed explanation.
　　Han moved threateningly toward the protocol droid, his fingers itching to pull aplug. "Listen, you pile of bolts, if you don't-" He got no farther, as fifteen Ewokspears were thrust menacingly in his face. "Just kidding," he smiled affably.
　　The procession of Ewoks wound its way slowly into the ever-darkeningforest-tiny, somber creatures, inching through a giant's maze. The sun had nearlyset, now, and the long criss-crossing shadows made the cavernous domain even moreimposing than before. Yet the Ewoks seemed well at home, turning down eachdense corridor of vines with precision.
　　On their shoulders they carried their four prisoners-Han, Chewbacca, Luke,Artoo-tied to long poles, wrapped around and around with vines, immobilizing themas if they were wriggling larvae in coarse, leafy cocoons.
　　Behind the captives, Threepio, borne on a litter-rough-hewn of branches in theshape of a chair-was carried high upon the shoulders of the lowly Ewoks. Like aroyal potentate, he perused the mighty forest through which they carried him-themagnificent lavender sunset glowing between the vinery, the exotic flowers starting toclose, the ageless trees, the glistening ferns-and knew that no one before him hadever appreciated these things in just precisely the manner he was now. No one elsehad his sensors, his circuits, his programs, his memory banks-and so in some realway, he was the creator of this little universe, its images, and colors.
　　And it was good.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  