  

Return of The Jedi
VII

　　"So," the Dark Lord rumbled. "You have come to me."
　　"And you to me."
　　"The Emperor is expecting you. He believes you will turn to the dark side."
　　"I know´Father." It was momentous act for Luke-to address his father, ashis father. But he'd done it, now, and kept himself under control, and the momentwas past. It was done. He felt stronger for it. He felt potent.
　　"So, you have finally accepted the truth," Vader gloated.
　　"I have accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father."
　　"That name no longer has meaning for me." It was a name long ago. Adifferent life, a different universe. Could he truly once have been that man?
　　"It is the name of your true self," Luke's gaze bore steadily down on the cloakedfigure. "You have only forgotten. I know there is good in you. The Emperorhasn't driven it fully away." He molded with his voice, tried to form the potentialreality with the strength of his belief. "That's why you could not destroy me.That's why you won't take me to your Emperor now."
　　Vader seemed almost to smile through his mask at his son's use of Jedivoice-manipulation. He looked down at the lightsaber the captain had givenhim-Luke's lightsaber. So the boy was truly a Jedi now. A man grown. He heldthe lightsaber up. "You have constructed another."
　　"This one is mine," Luke said quietly. "I no longer use yours."
　　Vader ignited the blade, examined its humming brilliant light, like an admiringcraftsman. "Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are as powerful as the Emperorhas foreseen."
　　They stood there for a moment, the lightsaber between them. Sparks dove inand out of the cutting edge: photons pushed to the brink by the energy pulsingbetween these two warriors.
　　"Come with me, Father."
　　Vader shook his head. "Ben once thought as you do-"
　　"Don't blame Ben for your fall-" Luke took a step closer, then stopped.
　　Vader did not move. "You don't know the power of the dark side. I mustobey my master."
　　"I will not turn-you will be forced to destroy me."
　　"If that is your destiny." This was not his wish, but the boy was strong-if itcame, at last, to blows, yes, he would destroy Luke. He could no long afford to holdback, as he once had.
　　"Search your feelings, Father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict within you.Let go of your hate."
　　But Vader hated no one; he only lusted too blindly. "Someone has filled yourmind with foolish ideas, young one. The Emperor will show you the true nature ofthe Force. He is your master, now."
　　Vader signaled to a squad of distant stormtroopers as he extinguished Luke'slightsaber. The guards approached. Luke and the Dark Lord faced one another fora long, searching moment. Vader spoke just before the guards arrived.
　　"It is too late for me, Son."
　　"Then my father is truly dead," answered Luke. So what was to stop him fromkilling the Evil One who stood before him now? he wondered.
　　Noting, perhaps.
　　The vast Rebel fleet hung poised in space, ready to strike. It was hundreds oflight-years from the Death Star-but in hyperspace, all time was a moment, and thedeadliness of an attack was measured not in distance but in precision.
　　Ships changed in formation from corner to side, creating a faceted diamondshape to the armada-as if, like a cobra, the fleet was spreading its hood.
　　The calculations required to launch such a meticulously coordinated offensive atlightspeed made it necessary to fix on a stationary point-that it, stationary relative tothe point of reentry from hyperspace. The point chosen by the Rebel command wasa small, blue planet of the Sullust system. The armada was positioned around it, now,this unblinking cerulean world. It looked like the eye of the serpent.
　　The Millennium Falcon finished its rounds of the fleet's perimeter, checkingfinal positions, then pulled into place beneath the flagship. The time had come.
　　Lando was at the controls of the Falcon. Beside him, his copilot, NienNunb-a jowled, mouse-eyed creature from Sullust-flipped switches, monitoredreadouts, and made final preparations for the jump to hyperspace.
　　Lando set his comlink to war channel. Last hand of the night, his deal, a tablefull of high rollers-his favorite kind of game. With dry mouth, he made hissummary report to Ackbar of the command ship. "Admiral, we're in position. Allfighters are accounted for."
　　Ackbar's voice crackled back over the headset. "Proceed with the countdown.All groups assume attack coordinates."
　　Lando turned to his copilot with a quick smile. "Don't worry, my friends aredown there, they'll have that shield down on time´" He turned back to hisinstruments, saying under his breath: "Or this will be the shortest offensive of alltime."
　　"Gzhung Zhgodio," the copilot commented.
　　"All right," Lando grunted. "Stand by, then." He patted the control panel forgood luck, even though his deepest belief was that a good gambler made his own luck.Still, that's what Han's job was this time, and Han had almost never let Lando down.Just once-and that was a long time ago, in a star system far, far away.
　　This time was different. This time they were going to redefine luck, and call itLando. He smiled, and patted the panel one more time´just right.
　　Up on the bridge of the Star Cruiser command ship, Ackbar paused, lookedaround at his generals: all was ready.
　　"Are all groups in their attack coordinates?" he asked. He knew they were.
　　"Affirmative, Admiral."
　　Ackbar gazed out his view-window meditatively at the starfield, for perhaps thelast reflective moment he would ever have. He spoke finally into the comlink warchannel. "All craft will begin the jump to hyperspace on my mark. May the Forcebe with us."
　　He reached forward to the signal button.
　　In the Falcon, Lando stared at the identical galactic with foreboding. Theywere doing what a guerrilla force must never do: engage the enemy like a traditionalarmy. The Imperial army, fighting the Rebellion's guerrilla war, was alwayslosing-unless it won. The Rebels, by contrast, were always winning-unless theylost. And now, here was the most dangerous situation-the Alliance drawn into theopen, to fight on the Empire's terms: if the Rebels lost this battle, they lost the war.
　　Suddenly the signal light flashed on the control panel: Ackbar's mark. Theattack was commenced.
　　Lando pulled back the conversion switch and opened up the throttle. Outsidethe cockpit, the stars began streaking by. The streaks grew brighter, and longer, asthe ships of the fleet roared, in large segments, at lightspeed, keeping pace first withthe very photons of the radiant stars in the vicinity, and then soaring through the warpinto hyperspace itself-and disappearing the flash of a muon.
　　The blue crystal planet hovered in space alone, once again; staring, unseeing,into the void.
　　The strike squad crouched behind a woodsy ridge overlooking the Imperialoutpost. Leia viewed the area through a small electronic scanner.
　　Two shuttles were being off-loaded on the landing platform docking ramp.Several walkers were parked nearby. Troops stood around, helped with construction.Took watch, carried supplies. The massive shield generator hummed off to the side.
　　Flattened down in the bushes on the ridge with the strike force were severalEwoks, including Wicket, Paploo, Teebo, and Warwick. The rest stayed lower,behind the knoll, out of sight.
　　Leia put down the scanner and scuttled back to the others. "The entrance is onthe far side of that landing platform. This isn't going to be easy."
　　"Ahrck grah rahr hrowrowhr," Chewbacca agreed.
　　"Oh, come on, Chewie," Han gave the Wookiee a pained look. "We've gotteninto more heavily guarded places than that-"
　　"Frowh rahgh rahrahraff vrawgh gr," Chewie countered with a dismissinggesture.
　　Han thought of a second. "Well, the spice vaults of Gargon, for one."
　　"Of course I'm right-now if I could just remember how I did it´" Hanscratched his head, poking his memory.
　　Suddenly Paploo began chattering away, pointing, squealing. He garbledsomething to Wicket.
　　"What's he saying, Threepio?" Leia asked.
　　The golden droid exchanged a few terse sentences with Paploo; then Wicketturned to Leia with a hopeful grin.
　　Threepio, too, now looked at the Princess. "Apparently Wicket know about aback entrance to this installation."
　　Han perked up at that. "A back door? That's it! That's how we did it!"
　　Four Imperial scouts kept watch over the entrance to the bunker thathalf-emerged from the earth far to the rear of the main section of the shield generatorcomplex. Their rocket bikes were parked nearby.
　　In the undergrowth beyond, the Rebel strike squad lay in wait.
　　"Grrr, rowf rrrhl brhnnn," Chewbacca observed slowly.
　　"You're right, Chewie," Solo agreed, "with just those guards this should byeasier than breaking a Bantha."
　　"It only takes one to sound the alarm," Leia cautioned.
　　Han grinned, a bit overselfconfidently. "Then we'll have to do this realquietlike. If Luke can just keep Vader off our backs, like you said he said he would,this oughta be no sweat. Just gotta hit those guards fast and quiet´"
　　Threepio whispered to Teebo and Paploo, explaining the problem and theobjective. The Ewoks babbled giddily a moment, then Paploo jumped up and racedthrough the underbrush.
　　Leia checked the instrument on her wrist. "We're running out of time. Thefleet's in hyperspace by now."
　　Threepio muttered a question to Teebo and received a short reply. "Oh, dear,"Threepio replied, starting to rise, to look into the clearing beside the bunker.
　　"Stay down!" rasped Solo.
　　"What is it, Threepio?" Leia demanded.
　　"I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rush." Thedroid hoped he wasn't to be blamed for this.
　　"What are you talking about?" Leia's voice cut with an edge of fear.
　　"Oh, no. Look."
　　Paploo had scampered down through the bushes to where the scouts' bikes wereparked. Now, with the sickening horror of inevitability, the Rebel leaders watchedthe little ball of fur swing his pudgy body up onto one of the bikes, and begin flippingswitches at random. Before anyone could do anything, the bike's engines ignitedwith a rumbling roar. The four scouts looked over in surprise. Paploo grinnedmadly, and continued flipping switches.
　　Leia held her forehead. "Oh, no, no, no."
　　Chewie barked. Han nodded. "So much for our surprise attack."
　　The Imperial scouts raced toward Paploo just as the forward drive engaged,zooming the little teddy bear into the forest. He had all he could do just to hang onto the handlebar with his stubby paws. Three of the guards jumped on their ownbikes, and sped off in pursuit of the hotrod Ewok. The fourth scout stayed at his post,near the door of the bunker.
　　Leia was delighted, if a bit incredulous.
　　"Not bad for a ball of fuzz," Han admired. He nodded at Chewie, and the twoof them slipped down toward the bunker.
　　Paploo, meanwhile, was sailing through the trees, more lucky than in control.He was going at fairly low velocity for what the bike could do-but in Ewok-time,Paploo was absolutely dizzy with speed and excitement. It was terrifying; but heloved it. He could talk about this ride until the end of his life, and then his childrenwould tell their children, and it would get faster with each generation.
　　For now, though, the Imperial scouts were already pulling in sight behind him.When, a moment later, they began firing laser bolts at him, he decided he'd finallyhad enough. As he rounded the next tree, just out of their sight, he grabbed a vineand swung up into the branches. Several seconds later the three scouts tore byunderneath him, pressing their pursuit to the limit. He giggled furiously.
　　Back at the bunker, the laser scout was undone. Subdued by Chewbacca, bound,stripped of his suit, he was being carried into the woods now by two other members ofthe strike team. The rest of the squad silently crouched, forming a perimeter aroundthe entrance.
　　Han stood at the door, checking the stolen code against the digits on the bunker'scontrol panel. With natural speed he punched a series of buttons on the panel.Silently, the door opened.
　　Leia peeked inside. No sigh of life. She motioned the others, and entered thebunker. Han and Chewie followed close on her heels. Soon the entire team washuddled inside the otherwise empty steel corridor, leaving one lookout outside,dressed in the unconscious scout's uniform. Han pushed a series of buttons on theinner panel, closing the door behind them.
　　Leia thought briefly of Luke-she hoped he could detain Vader at least longenough to allow her to destroy this shield generator; she hoped even more dearly hecould avoid such a confrontation altogether. For she feared Vader was the strongerof the two.
　　Furtively she led the way down the dark and low-beamed tunnel.
　　Vader's shuttle settled onto the docking bay of the Death Star, like a black,wingless carrion-eating bird; like a nightmare insect. Luke and the Dark Lordemerged from the snout of the beast with a small escort of stormtroopers, and walkedrapidly across the cavernous main bay to the Emperor's tower elevator.
　　Royal guards awaited them there, flanking the shaft, bathed in a carmine glow.They opened the elevator door. Luke stepped forward.
　　His mind was buzzing with what to do. It was the Emperor he was being takento, now. The Emperor! If Luke could but focus, keep his mind clear to see whatmust be done-and do it.
　　A great noise filled his head, though, like an underground wind.
　　He hoped Leia deactivated the deflector shield quickly, and destroyed the DeathStar-now, while all three of them were here. Before anything else happened. Forthe closer Luke came to the Emperor, the more anything he feared would happen. Ablack storm raged inside him. He wanted to kill the Emperor, but then what?Confront Vader? What would his father do? And what if Luke faced his father first,faced him and-destroyed him. The thought was at once repugnant and compelling.Destroy Vader-and then what. For the first time, Luke had a brief murky image ofhimself, standing on his father's body, holding his father's blazing power, and sittingat the Emperor's right hand.
　　He squeezed his eyes shut against this thought, but it left a cold sweat on hisbrow, as if Death's hand had brushed him there and left its shallow imprint.
　　The elevator door opened. Luke and Vader walked out into the throne roomalone, across the unlit antechamber, up the grated stairs, to stand before the throne:father and son, side by side, both dressed in black, one masked and one exposed,beneath the gaze of the malignant Emperor.
　　Vader bowed to his master. The Emperor motioned him to rise, though; theDark Lord did his master's bidding.
　　"Welcome, young Skywalker," the Evil One smiled graciously. "I have beenexpecting you."
　　Luke stared back brazenly at the bent, hooded figure. Defiantly. TheEmperor's smile grew even softer, though; even more fatherly. He looked at Luke'smanacles.
　　"You no longer need these," he added with noblesse oblige-and made theslightest motion with his finger in the direction of Luke's wrists. At that, Luke'sbinders simply fell away, clattering noisily to the floor.
　　Luke looked at his own hands-free, now, to reach out for the Emperor's throat,to crush his windpipe in an instant´
　　Yet the Emperor seemed gentle. Had he not just let Luke free? But he wasdevious, too, Luke knew. Do not be fooled by appearances, Ben had told him. TheEmperor was unarmed. He could still strike. But wasn't aggression part of thedark side? Mustn't he avoid that at all costs? Or could he use darkness judiciously,and then put it away? He stared at his free hands´he could have ended it all rightthere-or could he? He had total freedom to choose what to do now; yet he couldnot choose. Choice, the double-edged sword. He could kill the Emperor, he couldsuccumb to the Emperor's arguments. He could kill Vader´and then he could evenbecome Vader. Again this thought laughed at him like a broken clown, until hepushed it back into a black corner of his brain.
　　The Emperor sat before him, smiling. The moment was convulsive withpossibilities´
　　The moment passed. He did nothing.
　　"Tell me, young Skywalker," the Emperor said when he saw Luke's first strugglehad taken its course. "Who has been involved in your training until now?" Thesmile was thin, open-mouthed, hollow.
　　Luke was silent. He would reveal nothing.
　　"Oh, I know it was Obi-wan Kenobi at first," the wicked ruler continued, rubbinghis fingers together as if trying to remember. Then pausing, his lips creased into asneer. "Of course, we are familiar with the talent Obi-wan Kenobi had, when itcame to training Jedi." He nodded politely in Vader's direction, indicatingObi-wan's previous star pupil. Vader stood without responding, without moving.
　　Luke tensed with fury at the Emperor's defamation of Ben-though, of course,to the Emperor it was praise. And he bridled even more, knowing the Emperor wasso nearly right. He tried to bring his anger under control, though, for it seemed toplease the malevolent dictator greatly.
　　Palpatine noted the emotions on Luke's face and chuckled. "So, in your earlytraining you have followed your father's path, it would seem. But alas, Obi-wan isnow dead, I believe; his elder student, here, saw to that-" again, he made a handmotion toward Vader. "So tell me, young Skywalker-who continued yourtraining?"
　　That smile, again, like a knife. Luke held silent, struggling to regain hiscomposure.
　　The Emperor tapped his fingers on the arm of the throne, recalling. "There wasone called´Yoda. An aged Master Jedi´Ah, I see by your countenance I have hit achord, a resonant chord indeed. Yoda, then."
　　Luke flashed with anger at himself, now, to have revealed so much, unwillingly,unwittingly. Anger and self-doubt. He strove to calm himself-to see all, to shownothing; only to be.
　　"This Yoda," the Emperor mused. "Lives he still?"
　　Luke focused on the emptiness of space beyond the window behind theEmperor's chair. The deep void, where nothing was. Nothing. He filled his mindwith this black nothing. Opaque, save for the occasional flickering of starlight thatfiltered through the ether.
　　"Ah," cried Emperor Palpatine. "He lives not. Very good, young Skywalker,you almost hid this from me. But you could not. And you can not. Your deepestflickerings are to me apparent. Your nakedest soul. That is my first lesson to you."He beamed.
　　Luke wilted-but a moment. In the very faltering, he found strength. Thushad Ben and Yoda both instructed him: when you are attacked, fall. Let youropponent's power buffet you as strong wind topples the grass. In time, he willexpend himself, and you will still be upright.
　　The Emperor watched Luke's face with cunning. "I'm sure Yoda taught you touse the Force with great skill."
　　The taunt had its desired effect-Luke's face flushed, his muscles flexed.
　　He saw the Emperor actually lick his lips at the sight of Luke's reaction. Lickhis lips and laugh from the bottom of his throat, the bottom of his soul.
　　Luke paused, for he saw something else, as well; something he hadn't seenbefore in the Emperor. Fear.
　　Luke saw fear in the Emperor-fear of Luke. Fear of Luke's power, fear thatthis power could be turned on him-on the Emperor-in the same way Vader hadturned it on Obi-wan Kenobi. Luke saw this fear in the Emperor-and he knew, now,the odds had shifted slightly. He had glimpsed the Emperor's nakedest self.
　　With sudden absolute calm, Luke stood upright. He stared directly intc themalign ruler's hood.
　　Palpatine said nothing for a few moments, returning the young Jedi's gaze,assessing his strengths and weaknesses. He sat back at last, pleased with this firstconfrontation. "I look forward to completing your training, young Skywalker. Intime, you will call me Master."
　　For the first time, Luke felt steady enough to speak. "You're gravely mistaken.You will not convert me as you did my father."
　　"No, my young Jedi," the Emperor leaned forward, gloating, "you will find thatit is you who are mistaken´about a great many things."
　　Palpatine suddenly stood, came down from his throne, walked up very close toLuke, stared venomously into the boy's eyes. At last, Luke saw the entire facewithin the hood: eyes, sunken like tombs; the flesh decayed beneath skin weatheredby virulent storms, lined by holocaust; the grin, a death's-grin; the breath, corrupt.
　　Vader extended a gloved hand toward the Emperor, holding out Luke's lightsaber.The Emperor took it with a slow sort of glee, then walked with it across the room tothe huge circular view-window. The Death Star had been revolving slowly, so theSanctuary Moon was now visible at the window's curving margin.
　　Palpatine looked at Endor, then back at the lightsaber in his hand. "Ah, yes, aJedi's weapon. Much like your father's." He faced Luke directly. "By now youmust know your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be withyou."
　　"Never. Soon I will die, and you with me." Luke was confident of that now.He allowed himself the luxury of a boast.
　　The Emperor laughed, a vile laugh. "Perhaps you refer to the imminent attackof your Rebel fleet." Luke had a thick, reeling moment, then steadied himself. TheEmperor went on. "I assure you, we are quite safe from your friends here."
　　Vader walked toward the Emperor, stood at his side, looking at Luke.
　　Luke felt increasingly raw. "Your overconfidence is your weakness," hechallenged them.
　　"Your faith in your friends is yours." The Emperor began smiling; but then hismouth turned down, his voice grew angry. "Everything that has transpired has doneso according to my design. Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon-they'rewalking into a trap. And so is your Rebel fleet!"
　　Luke's face twitched visibly. The Emperor saw this, and really began to foam."It was I who allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It isquite safe from your pitiful little band-an entire legion of my troops awaits themthere.
　　Luke's eyes darted from the Emperor, to Vader, and finally to the lightsaber inthe Emperor's hand. His mind quivered with alternatives; suddenly everything wasout of control again. He could count on nothing but himself. And on himself, hishold was tenuous.
　　The Emperor kept rattling on imperiously. "I'm afraid the deflector shield willbe quite operational when your fleet arrives. And that is only the beginning of mysurprise-but of course I don't wish to spoil it for you."
　　The situation was degenerating fast, from Luke's perspective. Defeat afterdefeat was being piled on his head. How much could he take? And now anothersurprise coming? There seemed to be no end to the rank deeds Palpatine could carryout against the galaxy. Slowly, infinitesimally, Luke raised his hand in the directionof the lightsaber.
　　The Emperor continued. "From here, young Skywalker, you will witness thefinal destruction of the Alliance-and the end of your insignificant rebellion."
　　Luke was in torment. He raised his hand further. He realized both Palpatineand Vader were watching him. He lowered his hand, lowered his level of anger,tried to restore his previous calm, to find his center to see what it was he needed to do.
　　The Emperor smiled, a thin dry smile. He offered the lightsaber to Luke."You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you, now. Very good, take yourJedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in your anger.With each passing moment you make yourself more my servant."
　　His rasping laughter echoed off the walls like desert wind. Vader continuedstaring at Luke.
　　Luke tried to hide his agony. "No, never." He thought desperately of Ben andYoda. They were part of the Force, now, part of the energy that shaped it. Was itpossible for them to distort the Emperor's vision by their presence? No one wasinfallible, Ben had told him-surely the Emperor couldn't see everything, couldn'tknow every future, twist every reality to suit his gluttony. Ben, thought Luke, if everI needed your guidance, it is now. Where can I take this, that it will not lead me toruin?
　　As if in answer, the Emperor leered, and put the lightsaber down on the controlchair near Luke's hand. "It is unavoidable," the Emperor said quietly. "It is yourdestiny. You, like your father, are now´mine."
　　Luke had never felt so lost.
　　Han, Chewie, Leia, and a dozen commandos made their way down thelabyrinthine corridors toward the area where the shield generator room was marked onthe stolen map. Yellow lights illuminated the low rafters, casting long shadows ateach intersection. At the first three turnings, all remained quiet; they saw no guardor worker.
　　At the fourth cross-corridor, six Imperial stormtroopers stood a wary watch.
　　There was no way around; the section had to be traversed. Han and Leia lookedat each other and shrugged; there was nothing for it but to fight.
　　With pistols drawn, they barged into the entryway. Almost as if they'd beenexpecting an attack, the guards instantly crouched and began firing their own weapons.A barrage of laserbolts followed, ricocheting from girder to floor. Twostormtroopers were hit immediately. A third lost his gun; pinned behind arefrigerator console, he was unable to do much but stay low.
　　Two more stood behind a fire door, though, and blasted each commando whotried to get through. Four went down. The guards were virtually impregnablebehind their vulcanized shield-but virtually didn't account for Wookiees.
　　Chewbacca rushed the door, physically dislodging it on top of the twostormtroopers. They were crushed.
　　Leia shot the sixth guard as he stood to draw a bead on Chewie. The trooperwho'd been crouching beneath the refrigeration unit suddenly bolted, to go for help.Han raced after him a few long strides and brought him down with a flying tackle.He was out cold.
　　They checked themselves over, accounted for casualties. Not too bad-but ithad been noisy. They'd have to hurry now, before a general alarm was set. Thepower center that controlled the shield generator was very near. And there would beno second chances.
　　The Rebel fleet broke out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. Amidglistening streamers of light, battalion after battalion emerged in formation, to fire offtoward the Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hovering brightly in the close distance.Soon the entire navy was bearing down on its target, the Millennium Falcon in thelead.
　　Lando was worried from the moment they came out of hyperspace. He checkedhis screen, reversed polarities, queried the computer.
　　The copilot was perplexed, as well. "Zhnh ahzi gngnohzh. Dzhy lyhz!"
　　"But how could that be?" Lando demanded. "We've got to be able to get somekind of reading on the shield, up or down." Who was conning whom on this raid?"
　　Nien Nunb pointed at the control panel, shaking his head. "Dzhmbd."
　　"Jammed? How could they be jamming us if they don't knowwe're´coming."
　　He grimaced at the onrushing Death Star, as the implications of what he'd justsaid sank in. This was not a surprise attack, after all. It was a spider web.
　　He hit the switch on his comlink. "Break off the attack! The shield's still up!"
　　Red Leader's voice shouted back over the headphones. "I get no reading, areyou sure?"
　　"Pull up!" Lando commanded. "All craft pull up!"
　　He banked hard to the left, the fighters of the Red Squad veering close on his tail.
　　Some didn't make it. Three flanking X-wings nicked the invisible deflectorshield, spinning out of control, exploding in flames along the shield surface. Noneof the others paused to look back.
　　On the Rebel Star Cruiser bridge, alarms were screaming, light flashing, klaxonsblaring, as the mammoth space cruiser abruptly altered its momentum, trying tochange course in time to avoid collision with the shield. Officers were running frombattle stations to navigation controls; other ships in the fleet could be seen through theview-screens, careening wildly in a hundred directions, some slowing, some speedingup.
　　Admiral Ackbar spoke urgently but quietly into the comlink. "Take evasiveaction. Green Group steer course for Holding Sector. MG-7 Blue Group-"
　　A Mon Calamari controller, across the bridge, called out to Ackbar with graveexcitement. "Admiral, we have enemy ships at Sector RT-23 and PB-4."
　　The large central view-screen was coming alive. It was no longer just theDeath Star and the green moon behind it, gloating isolated in space. Now themassive Imperial fleet could be seen flying in perfect, regimental formation, out frombehind Endor in two behemoth flanking waves-heading to surround the Rebel fleetfrom both sides, like the pincers of a deadly scorpion.
　　And the shield barricaded the Alliance in front. They had nowhere to go.
　　Ackbar spoke desperately into the comlink. "It's a trap. Prepare for attack."
　　An anonymous fighter pilot's voice came back over the radio. "Fighterscoming in! Here we go!"
　　The attack began. The battle was joined.
　　TIE fighters, first-they were much faster than the bulky Imperial cruisers, sothey were the first to make contact with the Rebel invaders. Savage dogfightsensued, and soon the black sky was aglow with ruby explosions.
　　An aide approached Ackbar. "We've added power to the forward shield,Admiral."
　　"Good. Double power on the main battery, and-"
　　Suddenly the Star Cruiser was rocked by thermonuclear fireworks outside theobservation window.
　　"Gold Wing is hit hard!" another officer shouted, stumbling up to the bridge.
　　"Give them cover!" Ackbar ordered. "We must have time!" He spoke againinto the comlink, as yet another detonation rumbled the frigate. "All ships, standyour position. Wait for my command to return!"
　　It was far too late for Lando and his attack squadrons to heed that order, though.They were already way ahead of the pack, heading straight for the oncoming Imperialfleet.
　　Wedge Antilles, Luke's old buddy from the first campaign, let the X-wings thataccompanied the Falcon. As they drew near the Imperial defenders, his voice cameover the comlink, calm and experienced. "Lock X-foils in attack positions."
　　The wings split like dragonfly gossamers, poised for increased maneuvering andpower.
　　"All wings report in," said Lando.
　　"Red Leader standing by," Wedge replied.
　　"Green Leader standing by."
　　"Blue Leader standing by."
　　"Gray Leader-"
　　This last transmission was interrupted by a display of pyrotechnics thatcompletely disintegrated Gray Wing.
　　"Here they come," Wedge commented.
　　"Accelerate to attack speed," Lando ordered. "Draw fire away from ourcruisers as long as possible."
　　"Copy, Gold Leader," Wedge responded. "We're moving to point three acrossthe axis-"
　　"Two of them coming in at twenty degrees-" someone advised.
　　"I see them," noted Wedge. "Cut left, I'll take the leader."
　　"Watch yourself, Wedge, three from above."
　　"Yeah, I-"
　　"I'm on it, Red Leader."
　　"There's too many of them-"
　　"You're taking a lot of fire, back off-"
　　"Red Four, watch out!"
　　"I'm hit!"
　　The X-wing spun, sparking, across the starfield, out of power, into the void.
　　"You've picked one up, watch it!" Red Six yelled at Wedge.
　　"My scope's negative, where is he?"
　　"Red Six, a squadron of fighters has broken through-"
　　"They're heading for the Medical Frigate! After them!"
　　"Go ahead," Lando agreed. "I'm going in. There're four marks at point threefive. Cover me!"
　　"Right behind you, Gold Leader. Red Two, Red Three, pull in-"
　　"Hang on, back there."
　　"Close up formations, Blue Group."
　　"Good shooting, Red Two."
　　"Not bad," said Lando. "I'll take out the other three´"
　　Calrissian steered the Falcon into the complete flip, as his crew fired at theImperial fighters from the belly guns. Two were direct hits, the third a glancingblow that caused the TIE fighter to tumble into another of its own squads. Theheavens were absolutely thick with them, but the Falcon was faster by half thananything else that flew.
　　Within a matter of minutes, the battlefield was a diffuse red glow, spotted withpuffs of smoke, blazing fireballs, whirling spark showers, spinning debris, rumblingimplosions, shafts of light, tumbling machinery, space-frozen corpses, wells ofblackness, electron storms.
　　It was a grim and dazzling spectacle. And only beginning.
　　Nien Nunb made a guttural aside to Lando.
　　"You're right," the pilot frowned. "Only their fighters are attacking. What arethose Star Destroyers waiting for?" Looked like the Emperor was trying to get theRebels to buy some real estate he wasn't intending to sell.
　　"Dzhng zhng," the copilot warned, as another squadron of TIE fighters swoopeddown from above.
　　"I see 'em. We're sure in the middle of it, now." He took a second to glanceat Endor, floating peacefully off to his right. "Come on, Han old buddy, don't let medown."
　　Han pressed the button on his wrist-unit and covered his head: the reinforceddoor to the main control room blew into melted pieces. The Rebel squad stormedthrough the gaping portal.
　　The stormtroopers inside seemed taken completely by surprise. A few wereinjured by the exploding door; the rest gawked in dismay as the Rebels rushed themwith guns drawn. Han took the lead, Leia right behind; Chewie covered the rear.
　　They herded all the personnel into one corner of the bunker. Three commandosguarded them there, three more covered the exits. The rest began placing theexplosive charges.
　　Leia studied one of the screens on the control panel. "Hurry, Han, look! Thefleet's being attacked!"
　　Solo looked over at the screen. "Blast it! With the shield still up, they'rebacked against the wall."
　　"That is correct," came a voice from the rear of the room. "Just as you are."
　　Han and Leia spun around to find dozens of Imperial guns trained on them; anentire legion had been hiding in the wall compartments of the bunker. Now, in asingle moment, the Rebels were surrounded-nowhere to run, far too manystormtroopers to fight. Completely surrounded.
　　More Imperial troops charged through the door, roughly disarming the stunnedcommandos.
　　Han, Chewie, and Leia exchanged helpless, hopeless looks. They'd been theRebellion's last chance.
　　They'd failed.
　　Some distance from the main area of battle, coasting safely in the center of theblanket of ships that constituted the Imperial fleet, was the flagship Super StarDestroyer. On the bridge, Admiral Piett watched the war through the enormousobservation window-curious, as if viewing an elaborate demonstration, or anentertainment.
　　Two fleet captains stood behind him, respectfully silent; also learning the elegantdesigns of their Emperor.
　　"Have the fleet hold here," Admiral Piett ordered.
　　The first captain hurried to carry out the order. The second stepped up to thewindow, beside the admiral. "We aren't going to attack?"
　　Piett smirked. "I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He hassomething special planned for this Rebel scum." He accented the specialness with along pause, for the inquisitive captain to savor. "We are only to keep them fromescaping."
　　The Emperor, Lord Vader, and Luke watched the aerial battle rage from thesafety of the throne room in the Death Star.
　　It was a scene of pandemonium. Silent, crystalline explosions surrounded bygreen, violet, or magenta auras. Wildly vicious dogfights. Gracefully floatingcrags of melted steel; icicle sprays that might have been blood.
　　Luke watched in horror, as another Rebel ship toppled against the unseeabledeflector shield, exploding in a fiery concussion.
　　Vader watched Luke. His boy was powerful, stronger than he'd imagined.And still pliable. Not lost yet-either to the sickening, weakly side of the Force, thathad to beg for everything it received; or to the Emperor, who feared Luke with reason.
　　There was yet time to take Luke for his own-to retake him. To join with himin dark majesty. To rule the galaxy together. It would only take patience and alittle wizardry, to show Luke the exquisite satisfactions of the dark way and to pryhim from the Emperor's terrified clutch.
　　Vader knew Luke had seen it, too-the Emperor's fear. He was a clever boy,young Luke, Vader smiled grimly to himself. He was his father's son.
　　The Emperor interrupted Vader's contemplation with a cackled remark to Luke."As you can see, my young apprentice, the deflector shield is still in place. Yourfriends have failed! And now´" he raised his spindly hand above his head to markthis moment: "Witness the power of this fully armed and operational battle station."He walked over to the comlink and spoke in a gravelly whisper, as if to a lover."Fire at will, Commander."
　　In shock, and in foreknowledge, Luke looked out across the surface of the DeathStar, to the space battle beyond and to the bulk of the Rebel fleet beyond that.
　　Down in the bowels of the Death Star, Commander Jerjerrod gave an order. Itwas with mixed feelings that he issued the command, because it meant the finaldestruction of the Rebel insurrectionists-which meant an end to the state of war,which Jerjerrod cherished above all things. But second to ongoing war itselfJerjerrod loved total annihilation; so while tempered with regret, this order was notentirely without thrill.
　　At Jerjerrod's instruction, a controller pulled a switch, which ignited a blinkingpanel. Two hooded Imperial soldiers pushed a series of buttons. A thick beam oflight slowly pulsed from a long, heavily blockaded shaft. On the outer surface of thecompleted half of the Death Star, a giant laser dish began to glow.
　　Luke watched in impotent horror, as the unbelievably huge laser beam radiatedout from the muzzle of the Death Star. It touched-for only an instant-one of theRebel Star Cruisers that was surging in the midst of the heaviest fighting. And in thenext instant, the Star Cruiser was vaporized. Blown to dust. Returned to its mostelemental particles, in a single burst of light.
　　In the numbing grip of despair, with the hollowest of voids devouring his heart,Luke's eyes, alone, glinted-for he saw, again, his lightsaber, lying unattended on thethrone. And in this bleak and livid moment, the dark side was much with him.

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  