  

Return of The Jedi
VIII

　　Admiral Ackbar stood on the bridge in stunned disbelief, looking out the observationwindow at the place where, a moment before, the Rebel Star Cruiser Liberty had justbeen engaged in a furious long-range battle. Now, there was nothing. Only emptyspace powdered with a fine dust that sparkled in the light of more distant explosions.Ackbar stared in silence.
　　Around him, confusion was rampant. Flustered controllers were still trying tocontact the Liberty, while fleet captains ran from screen to port, shouting, directing,misdirecting.
　　An aide handed Ackbar the comlink. General Calrissian's voice was comingthrough.
　　"Home-one, this is Gold Leader. That blast came from the Death Star! Repeat,the Death Star is operational!"
　　"We saw it," Ackbar answered wearily. "All craft prepare to retreat."
　　"I'm not going to give up and run!" Lando shouted back. He'd come a longway to be in this game.
　　"We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel firepower ofthat magnitude!"
　　"You won't get a second chance at this, Admiral. Han will have that shielddown-we've got to give him more time. Head for those Star Destroyers."
　　Ackbar looked around him. A huge charge of flak rumbled the ship, painting abrief, waxen light over the window. Calrissian was right: there would be no secondchance. It was now, or it was the end.
　　He turned to his First Star captain. "Move the fleet forward."
　　"Yes, sir." The man paused. "Sir, we don't stand much of a chance againstthose Star Destroyers. They out-gun us, and they're more heavily armored."
　　"I know," Ackbar said softly.
　　The captain left. An aide approached.
　　"Forward ships have made contact with the Imperial fleet, sir."
　　"Concentrate your fire on their power generators. If we can knock out theirshields, our fighters might stand a chance against them."
　　The ship was rocked by another explosion-a laserbolt hit to one of the aftgyrostabilizers.
　　"Intensify auxiliary shields!" someone yelled.
　　The pitch of the battle augmented another notch.
　　Beyond the window of the throne room, the Rebel fleet was being decimated inthe soundless vacuum of space, while inside, the only sound was the Emperor'sthready cackle. Luke continued his spiral into desperation as the Death Star laserbeam incinerated ship after ship.
　　The Emperor hissed. "Your fleet is lost-and your friends on the Endor Moonwill not survive´" He pushed a comlink button on the arm of his throne and spokeinto it with relish. "Commander Jerjerrod, should the Rebel manage to blow up theshield generator, you will turned this battle station onto the Endor Moon and destroyit."
　　"Yes, Your Highness," came the voice over the receiver, "but we have severalbattalions stationed on-"
　　"You will destroy it!" the Emperor's whisper was more final than any scream.
　　"Yes, Your Highness."
　　Palpatine turned back to Luke-the former, shaking with glee; the latter, withoutrage.
　　"There is no escape, my young pupil. The Alliance will die-as will yourfriends."
　　Luke's face was contorted, reflecting his spirit. Vader watched him carefully, asdid the Emperor. The lightsaber began to shake on its resting place. The youngJedi's hand was trembling, his lips pulled back in grimace, his teeth grinding.
　　The Emperor smiled. "Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless-takeyour weapon. Strike me down with all of your hatred, and your journey toward thedark side will be complete." He laughed, and laughed.
　　Luke was able to resist no longer. The lightsaber rattled violently on the thronea moment, then flew into his hand, impelled by the Force. He ignited it a momentlater and swung it with his full weight downward toward the Emperor's skull.
　　In that instant, Vader's blade flashed into view, parrying Luke's attack an inchabove the Emperor's head. Sparks flew like forging steel, bathing Palpatine'sgrinning face in a hellish glare.
　　Luke jumped back, and turned, lightsaber upraised, to face his father. Vaderextended his own blade, poised to do battle.
　　The Emperor sighed with pleasure and sat in his throne, facing thecombatants-the sole audience to this dire, aggrieved contest.
　　Han, Leia, Chewbacca, and the rest of the strike team were escorted out of thebunker by their captors. The sight that greeted them was substantially different fromthe way the grassy area had appeared when they'd entered. The clearing was nowfilled with Imperial troops.
　　Hundreds of them, in white or black armor-some standing at ease, someviewing the scene from atop their two-legged walkers, some leaning on their speederbikes. If the situation had appeared hopeless inside the bunker, it looked even worsenow.
　　Han and Leia turned to each other full of feeling. All they'd struggled for, allthey'd dreamed of-gone, now. Even so, they'd had each other for a short while atleast. They'd come together from opposite ends of a wasteland of emotionalisolation: Han had never known love, so enamored of himself was he; Leia hadnever known love, so wrapped up in social upheaval was she, so intent on embracingall of humanity. And somewhere between his glassy infatuation for the one, and herglowing fervor for the all, they'd found a shady place where two could huddle, grow,even feel nourished.
　　But that, too, was cut short, now. The end seemed near. So much was there tosay, they couldn't find a single word. Instead, they only joined hands, speakingthrough their fingers in these final minutes of companionship.
　　That's when Threepio and Artoo jauntily entered the clearing, beeping andjabbering excitedly to each other. They stopped cold in their tracks when they sawwhat the clearing had become´and found all eyes suddenly focused on them.
　　"Oh, dear," Threepio whimpered. In a second, he and Artoo had turned aroundand run right back into the woods from which they'd just come. Six stormtrooperscharged in after them.
　　The Imperial soldiers were in time to see the two droids duck behind a large tree,some twenty yards into the forest. They rushed after the robots. As they roundedthe tree, they found Artoo and Threepio standing there quietly, waiting to be taken.The guards moved to take them. They moved too slowly.
　　Fifteen Ewoks dropped out of the overhanging branches, quickly overpoweringthe Imperial troops with rocks and clubs. At that, Teebo-perched in anothertree-raised a ram's horn to his lips and sounded three long blasts from its bell. Thatwas the signal for the Ewoks to attack.
　　Hundreds of them descended upon the clearing from all sides, throwingthemselves against the might of the Imperial army with unrestrained zeal. The scenewas unabridged chaos.
　　Stormtroopers fired their laser pistols at the furry creatures, killing or woundingmany-only to be overrun by dozens more in their place. Biker scouts chasedsquealing Ewoks into the woods-and were knocked from their bikes by volleys ofrocks launched from the trees.
　　In the first confused moments of the attack, Chewie dove into the foliage, whileHan and Leia hit the dirt in the cover of the arches that flanked the bunker door.Explosions all around kept them pinned from leaving; the bunker door itself wasclosed again, and locked.
　　Han punched out the stolen code on the control panel keys-but this time, thedoor didn't open. It had been reprogrammed as soon as they'd been caught. "Theterminal doesn't work now," he muttered.
　　Leia stretched for a laser pistol lying in the dirt, just out of reach, beside a felledstormtrooper. Shots were crisscrossing from every direction, though.
　　"We need Artoo," she shouted.
　　Han nodded, took out his comlink, pushed the sequence that signaled the littledroid and reached for the weapon Leia couldn't get as the fighting stormed all aroundthem.
　　Artoo and Threepio were huddled behind a log when Artoo got the message.He suddenly blurted out an excited whistle and shot off toward the battlefield.
　　"Artoo!" Threepio shouted. "Where are you going? Wait for me!" Nearlybeside himself, the golden droid tore off after his best friend.
　　Biker scouts raced over and around the scurrying droids, blasting away at theEwoks who grew fiercer every time their fur was scorched. The little bears werehanging on the legs of the Imperial walkers, hobbling the appendages with lengths ofvine, or injuring the joint mechanisms by forcing pebbles and twigs into the hinges.They were knocking scouts off their bikes, by stringing vine between trees at throatlevel. They were throwing rocks, jumping out of trees, impaling with spears,entangling with nets. They were everywhere.
　　Scores of them rallied behind Chewbacca, who had grown rather fond of themduring the course of the previous night. He'd become their mascot; and they, hislittle country cousins. So it was with a special ferocity, now, that they came to eachother's aid. Chewie was flinging stormtroopers left and right, in a selfless Wookieefrenzy, any time he saw them physically formed equally self-sacrificing cadres to donothing but follow Chewbacca and throw themselves upon any soldiers who startedgetting the upper hand with him.
　　It was a wild, strange battle.
　　Artoo and Threepio finally made it to the bunker door. Han and Leia providedcover fire with guns they'd finally managed to scrounge. Artoo moved quickly tothe terminal, plugged in his computer arm, began scanning. Before he'd evencomputed the weather codes, though, a laser bolt explosion ripped the entranceway,disengaging Artoo's cable arm, spilling him to the dirt.
　　His head began to smolder, his fittings to leak. All of a sudden everycompartment sprang open, every nozzle gushed or smoked, every wheel spun-andthen stopped. Threepio rushed to his wounded companion, as Han examined thebunker terminal.
　　"Maybe I can hotwire this thing," Solo mumbled.
　　Meanwhile the Ewoks had erected a primitive catapult at the other side of thefield. They fired a large boulder at one of the walkers-the machine vibratedseriously, but did not topple. It turned, and headed for the catapult, laser cannonfiring. The Ewoks scattered. When the walker was ten feet away, the Ewokschopped a mass of restraining vines, and two huge, balanced trunks crashed down ontop of the Imperial war wagon, halting it for good.
　　The next phase of the assault began. Ewoks in kite-like animal-skinhang-gliders started dropping rocks on the stormtroopers, or dive-bombing withspears. Teebo, who led the attack, was hit in the wing with laser fire during the firstvolley and crashed into a gnarled root. A charging walker clumped forward to crushhim, but Wicket swooped down just in time, yanking Teebo to safety. In swervingout of the walker's way, though, Wicket smashed into a racing speeder bike-they allwent tumbling into the dense foliage.
　　And so it went.
　　The casualties mounted.
　　High above, it was no different. A thousand deadly dogfights and cannonbombardments were erupting all over the skies, while the Death Star laser beammethodically disintegrated the Rebel ships.
　　In the Millennium Falcon, Lando steered like a maniac through an obstaclecourse of the giant, floating Imperial Star Destroyers-trading laser bolts with them,dodging flak, outracing TIE fighters.
　　Desperately, he was shouting into his comlink, over the noise of continuousexplosions, talking to Ackbar in the Alliance command ship. "I said closer! Movein as close as you can and engage the Star Destroyers at point blank range-that waythe Death Star won't be able to fire at us without knocking out its own ships!"
　　"But no one's ever gone nose to nose at that range, between supervessels liketheir Destroyers and our Cruisers!" Ackbar fumed at the unthinkable-but theiroptions were running out.
　　"Great!" yelled Lando, skimming over the surface of the Destroyer. "Thenwe're inventing a new kind of combat!"
　　"We know nothing about the tactics of such a confrontation!" Ackbar protested.
　　"We know as much as they do!" Lando hollered. "And they'll think we knowmore!" Bluffing was always dangerous in the last hand: but sometimes, when allyour money was in the pot, it was the only way to win-and Lando never played tolose.
　　"At that close-range, we won't last long against Star Destroyers." Ackbar wasalready feeling giddy with resignation.
　　"We'll last longer than we will against that Death Star and we might just take afew of them with us!" Lando whooped. With a jolt, one of his forward guns wasblown away. He put the Falcon into a controlled spin, and careened around the bellyof the Imperial leviathan.
　　With little else to lose, Ackbar decided to try Calrissian's strategy. In the nextminutes, dozens of Rebel Cruisers moved in astronomically close to the Imperial StarDestroyers-and the colossal antagonists began blasting away at each other, like tanksat twenty paces, while hundreds of tiny fighters raced across their surfaces, zippingbetween laser bolts as they chased around the massive hulls.
　　Slowly, Luke and Vader circled. Lightsaber high above his head, Luke readiedhis attack from classic first-position; the Dark Lord held a lateral stance, in classicanswer. Without announcement, Luke brought his blade straight down-then, whenVader moved to parry, Luke feinted and cut low. Vader counterparried, let theimpact direct his sword toward Luke's throat´but Luke met the riposte and steppedback. The first blows, traded without injury. Again, they circled.
　　Vader was impressed with Luke's speed. Pleased, even. It was a pity, almost,he couldn't let the boy kill the Emperor yet. Luke wasn't ready for that, emotionally.There was still a chance Luke would return to his friends if he destroyed the Emperornow. He needed more extensive tutelage, first-training by both Vader andPalpatine-before he'd be ready to assume his place at Vader's right hand, ruling thegalaxy.
　　So Vader had to shephered the boy through periods like this, stop him from doingdamage in the wrong places-or in the right places prematurely.
　　Before Vader could gather his thoughts much further, though, Luke attackedagain-much more aggressively. He advanced in a flurry of lunges, each met with aloud crack of Vader's phosphorescent saber. The Dark Lord retreated a step at everyslash, swiveling once to bring his cutting beam up viciously-but Luke batted it away,pushing Vader back yet again. The Lord of the Sith momentarily lost his footing onthe stairs and tumbled to his knees.
　　Luke stood above him, at the top of the staircase, heady with his own power. Itwas in his hands, now, he knew it was: he could take Vader. Take his blade, take hislife. Take his place at the Emperor's side. Yes, even that. Luke didn't bury thethought, this time; he gloried in it. He engorged himself with its juices, felt itspower tingle his cheeks. It made him feverish, this thought, with lust sooverpowering as to totally obliterate all other considerations.
　　He had the power; the choice was his.
　　And then another thought emerged, slowly compulsive as an ardent lover: hecould destroy the Emperor, too. Destroy them both, and rule the galaxy. Avengeand conquer.
　　It was a profound moment for Luke. Dizzying. Yet he did not swoon. Nordid he recoil.
　　He took one step forward.
　　For the first time, the thought entered Vader's consciousness that his son mightbest him. He was astounded by the strength Luke had acquired since their last duel,in the Cloud City-not to mention the boy's timing, which was honed to athought's-breadth. This was an unexpected circumstance. Unexpected andunwelcome. Vader felt humiliation crawling in on the tail of his first reaction, whichwas surprise, and his second, which was fear. And then the edge of the humiliationcurled up, to reveal bald anger. And now he wanted revenge.
　　These things were mirrored, each facet, by the young Jedi who now toweredabove him. The Emperor, watching joyously, saw this, and goaded Luke on to revelin his Darkness. "Use your aggressive feelings, boy! Yes! Let the hate flowthrough you! Become one with it, let it nourish you!"
　　Luke faltered a moment-then realized what was happening. He was suddenlyconfused again. What did he want? What should he do? His brief exultation, hismicrosecond of dark clarity-gone, now, in a wash of indecision, veiled enigma.Cold awakening from a passionate flirtation.
　　He took a step back, lowered his sword, relaxed, and tried to drive the hatredfrom his being.
　　In that instant, Vader attacked. He lunged half up the stairs, forcing Luke toreverse defensively. He bound the boy's blade with his own, but Luke disengagedand leaped to the safety of an overhead gantry. Vader jumped over the railing to thefloor beneath the platform on which Luke stood.
　　"I will not fight you, Father," Luke stated.
　　"You are unwise to lower your defenses," Vader warned. His anger was layered,now-he did not want to win if the boy was not battling to the fullest. But ifwinning meant he had to kill the boy who wouldn't fight´then he could do that, too.Only he wanted Luke to be aware of those consequences. He wanted Luke to knowthis was no longer just a game. This was Darkness.
　　Luke heard something else, though. "Your thoughts betray you, Father. I feelthe good in you´the conflict. You could not bring yourself to kill me before-andyou won't destroy me now." Twice before, in fact-to Luke's recollection-Vadercould have killed him, but didn't. in the dogfight over the first Death Star, and laterin the lightsaber duel on Bespin. He thought of Leia, briefly now, too-of howVader had had her in his clutches once, had even tortured her´but didn't kill her.He winced to think of her agony, but quickly pushed that from his mind. The pointwas clear to him, now, though so often so murky: there was still good in his father.
　　This accusation really made Vader angry. He could tolerate much from theinsolent child, but this was insufferable. He must teach this boy a lesson he wouldnever forget, or die learning. "Once again, you underestimate the power of the darkside´"
　　Vader threw his scintillating blade-it sliced through the supports holding up thegantry on which Luke was perched, then swept around and flew back into Vader'shand. Luke tumbled to the ground, then rolled down another level, under the tiltingplatform. In the shadow of the darkened overhang, he was out of sight. Vaderpaced the area like a cat, seeking the boy; but he wouldn't enter the shadows of theoverhang.
　　"You cannot hide forever, Luke."
　　"You'll have to come in and get me," replied the disembodied voice.
　　"I will not give you the advantage that easily." Vader felt his intentionsincreasingly ambiguous in this conflict; the purity of his evil was being compromised.The boy was clever indeed-Vader knew he must move with extreme caution now.
　　"I wish no advantage, father. I will not fight you. Here´take my weapon."Luke knew full well this might be his end, but so be it. He would not use Darknessto fight Darkness. Perhaps it would be left to Leia, after all, to carry on the struggle,without him. Perhaps she would know a way he didn't know; perhaps she could finda path. For now, though, he could see only two paths, and one was into Darkness;and one was not.
　　Luke put his lightsaber on the ground, and rolled it along the floor toward Vader.It stopped halfway between them, in the middle of the low overhead area. The DarkLord reached out his hand-Luke's lightsaber jumped into it. He hooked it to hisbelt and, with grave uncertainty, entered the shadowy overhang.
　　He was picking up additional feelings from Luke, now, new crosscurrents ofdoubt. Remorse, regret, abandonment. Shades of pain. But somehow nowdirectly related to Vader. To others, to´Endor. Ah, that was it-the SanctuaryMoon where his friends would soon die. Luke would learn soon enough: friendshipwas different on the dark side. A different thing altogether.
　　"Give yourself to the dark side, Luke," he entreated. "It is the only way youcan save your friends. Yes, your thoughts betray you, son. Your feelings for themare strong, especially for-"
　　Vader stopped. He sensed something.
　　Luke withdrew further into shadow. He tried to hide, but there was no way tohide what was in his mind-Leia was in pain. Her agony cried to him now, and hisspirit cried with her. He tried to shut it out, to shut it up, but the cry was loud, and hecouldn't stifle it, couldn't leave it alone, had to cradle it openly, to give it solace.
　　Vader's consciousness invaded that private place.
　　"No!" screamed Luke.
　　Vader was incredulous. "Sister? Sister!" he bellowed. "Your feelings havenow betrayed her, too´Twins!" he roared triumphantly. "Obi-wan was wise to hideher, but now his failure is complete." His smile was clear to Luke, through the mask,through the shadows, through all the realms of Darkness. "If you will not turned tothe Dark Side, perhaps she will."
　　This, then, was Luke's breaking point. For Leia was everyone's last unflagginghope. If Vader turned his twisted, misguided cravings on her´
　　"Never!" he screamed. His lightsaber flew off Vader's belt into his own hand,igniting as it came to him.
　　He rushed to his father with a frenzy he'd never known. Nor had Vader. Thegladiators battled fiercely, sparks flying from the clash of their radiant weapons, but itwas soon evident that the advantage was all Luke's. And he was pressing it. Theylocked swords, body to body. When Luke pushed Vader back to break the clinch, theDark Lord hit his head on an overhanging beam in the cramped space. He stumbledbackward even farther, out of the low-hanging area. Luke pursued him relentlessly.
　　Blow upon blow, Luke forced Vader to retreat-back, onto the bridge thatcrossed the vast, seemingly bottomless shaft to the power core. Each stroke ofLuke's saber pummeled Vader, like accusations, like screams, like shards of hate.
　　The Dark Lord was driven to his knees. He raised his blade to block yetanother onslaught-and Luke slashed Vader's right hand off at the wrist.
　　The hand, along with bits of metal, wires, and electronic devices, clattereduselessly away while Vader's lightsaber tumbled over the edge of the span, into theendless shaft below, without a trace.
　　Luke stared at his father's twitching, severed, mechanical hand-and then at hisown black-gloved artificial part-and realized suddenly just how much he'd becomelike his father. Like the man he hated.
　　Trembling, he stood above Vader, the point of his glowing blade at the DarkLord's throat. He wanted to destroy this thing of Darkness, this thing that was oncehis father, this thing that was´him.
　　Suddenly the Emperor was there, looking on, chuckling with uncontrollable,pleased agitation. "Good! Kill him! Your hate has made you powerful! Now,fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at my side!"
　　Luke stared at his father beneath him, then at the Emperor, then back at Vader.This was Darkness-and it was the Darkness he hated. Not his father, not even theEmperor. But the Darkness in them. In them, and in himself.
　　And the only way to destroy the Darkness way to renounce it. For good and all.He stood suddenly erect, and made the decision for which he'd spent his life inpreparation.
　　He hurled his lightsaber away. "Never! Never will I turn to the dark side!You have failed, Palpatine. I am a Jedi, as my father was before me."
　　The Emperor's glee turned to a sullen rage. "So be it, Jedi. If you will not beturned, you will be destroyed."
　　Palpatine raised his spidery arms toward Luke: blinding white bolts of energycoruscated from his fingers, shot across the room like sorcerous lightning, and torethrough the boy's insides, looking for ground. The young Jedi was at onceconfounded and in agony-he'd never heard of such a power, such a corruption of theForce, let alone experienced it.
　　But if it was Force-generated, it could be Force-repelled. Luke raised his armsto deflect the bolts. Initially, he was successful-the lightning rebounded from histouch, harmlessly into the walls. Soon, though, the shocks came with such speedand power, they coursed over and into him, and he could only shrink before them,convulsed with pain, his knees buckling, his powers at ebb.
　　Vader crawled, like a wounded animal, to his Emperor's side.
　　On Endor, the battle of the bunker continued. Stormtroopers kept irradiatingEwoks with sophisticated weaponry, while the fuzzy little warriors bashed away at theImperial troops with clubs, tumbled walkers with logpiles and vine trip-wires, lassoedspeeder bikes with vine-ropes and net-traps.
　　They felled trees on their foes. They dug pits, which they covered withbranches, and then lured the walkers to chase them until the clumsy armored vehiclestoppled into the dugouts. They started rockslides. They dammed a small, nearbystream, and then opened the floodgates, deluging a host of troops and two morewalkers. They ganged up, and then ran away. They jumped on top of walkers fromhigh branches, and poured pouches of burning lizard-oil in the gun-slits. They usedknives, and spears, and slings, and made scary war-shrieks to confound and dismaythe enemy. They were fearless opponents.
　　Their example made even Chewie bolder than was his wont. He started havingso much fun swinging on vines and bashing heads, he nearly forgot about his laserpistol.
　　He swung onto the roof of a Walker at one point, with Teebo and Wicket clingingto his back. They landed with a thud atop the lurching contraption, then made such abanging racket trying to hang on, one of stormtroopers inside opened the top hatch tosee what was happening. Before he could fire his gun, Chewie plucked him out anddashed him to the ground-Wicket and Teebo immediately dove into the hatch andsubdued the other trooper.
　　Ewoks drive an Imperial Walker much the way they drive speederbikes-terribly, but with exhilaration. Chewie was almost thrown off the top severaltimes, but even barking angrily down into the cockpit didn't seem to have mucheffect-the Ewoks just giggled, squealed, and careened into another speeder bike.
　　Chewie climbed down inside. It took him half a minute to master thecontrols-Imperial technology was pretty standardized. And then, methodically, oneby one, he began approaching the other, unsuspecting, Imperial Walkers, and blastingthem to dust. Most had no idea what was happening.
　　As the giant war-machines began going up in flames, the Ewoks were reinspired.They rallied behind Chewie's Walker. The Wookiee was turning the tide of battle.
　　Han, meanwhile, was still working furiously at the control panel. Wiressparked each time he refastened another connection, but the door kept not opening.Leia crouched at his back, firing her laser pistol, giving him cover.
　　He motioned her at last. "Give me a hand, I think I've got it figured out. Holdthis."
　　He handed her one of the wires. She holstered her weapon, took the wire hegave her, and held it in position as he brought two others over from opposite ends ofthe panel.
　　"Here goes nothing," he said.
　　The three wires sparked; the connection was made. There was a sudden loudWHUMP, as a second blast door crashed down in front of the first, doubling theimpregnable barrier.
　　"Great. Now we have two doors to get through." Leia muttered.
　　At that moment, she was hit in the arm by a laser bolt, and knocked to theground.
　　Han rushed over to her. "Leia, no!" he cried, trying to stop the bleeding.
　　"Princess Leia, are you all right?" Threepio fretted.
　　"It's not bad," she shook her head. "It's-"
　　"Hold it!" shouted a voice. "One move and you're both dead!"
　　They froze, looked up. Two stormtroopers stood before them, weapons leveled,unwavering.
　　"Stand up," one ordered. "Hands raised."
　　Han and Leia looked at each other, fixed their gazes deep in each other's eyes,swam there in the wells of their souls for a suspended, eternal moment, during whichall was felt, understood, touched, shared.
　　Solo's gaze was drawn down to Leia's holster-she'd surreptitiously eased outher gun, and was holding it now at the ready. The action was hidden from thetroopers, because Han was standing in front of Leia, half-blocking their view.
　　He looked again into her eyes, comprehending. With a last, heartfelt smile, hewhispered, "I love you."
　　"I know," she answered simply.
　　Then the moment was over; and at an unspoken, instantaneous signal, Hanwhirled out of the line of fire as Leia blasted at the stormtroopers.
　　The air was filled with laser fire-a glinting orange-pink haze, like an electronstorm, buffeted the area, sheared by intense flares.
　　As the smoke cleared, a giant Imperial Walker approached, stood before him, andstopped. Han looked up to see its laser cannons aimed directly in his face. Heraised his arms, and took a tentative step forward. He wasn't really sure what he wasgoing to do. "Stay back," he said quietly to Leia, measuring the distance to themachine, in his mind.
　　That was when the hatch on top of the Walker popped open and Chewbaccastuck his head out with an ingratiating smile.
　　"Ahr Rahr!" barked the Wookiee.
　　Solo could have kissed him. "Chewie! Get down here! She's wounded!"He started forward to greet his partner, then stopped in mid-stride. "No, wait. I'vegot an idea."

LastIndexNext

? Georgelucas




 
  