  

Return of The Jedi
IX

　　The two space armadas, like their sea-bound counterparts of another time and galaxy,sat floating, ship to ship, trading broadsides with each other in pointblankconfrontation. 
　　Heroic, sometimes suicidal, maneuvers marked the day. A Rebel cruiser, itsback alive with fires and explosions, limped into direct contact with an Imperial StarDestroyer before exploding completely-taking the Star Destroyer with it. Cargoships loaded with charge were set on collision courses with fortress-vessels, theircrews abandoning ships to fates that were uncertain, at best.
　　Lando, Wedge, Blue Leader, and Green Wing went in to take out one of thelarger Destroyers-the Empire's main communications ship. It had already beendisabled by direct cannonade from the Rebel cruiser it had subsequently destroyed;but its damages were reparable-so the Rebels had to strike while it was still lickingits wounds.
　　Lando's squadron went in low-rock-throwing low-this prevented theDestroyer from using its bigger guns. It also made the fighters invisible until theywere directly visualized.
　　"Increase power on the front deflector shields," Lando radioed his group."We're going in."
　　"I'm right with you," answered Wedge. "Close up formations, team."
　　They went into a high-speed power-dive, perpendicular to the long axis of theImperial vessel-vertical drops were hard to track. Fifty feet from the surface, theypulled out at ninety degrees, and raced along the gunmetal hull, taking laserfire fromevery port.
　　"Starting attack run on the main power tree," Lando advised.
　　"I copy," answered Green Wing. "Moving into position."
　　"Stay clear of their front batteries," warned Blue Leader.
　　"It's a heavy fire zone down there."
　　"I'm in range."
　　"She's hurt bad on the left of the tower," Wedge noted. "Concentrate on thatside."
　　"Right with you."
　　Green Wing was hit. "I'm losing power!"
　　"Get clear, you're going to blow!"
　　Green Wing took it down like riding a rocket, into the Destroyer's front batteries.Tremendous explosions rumbled the port bow.
　　"Thanks," Blue Leader said quietly to the conflagration.
　　"That opens it up for us!" yelled Wedge. "Cur over. The power reactors arejust inside that cargo bay."
　　"Follow me!" Lando called, pulling the Falcon into a sharp bank that caught thehorrified reactor personnel by surprise. Wedge and Blue followed suit. They alldid their worst.
　　"Direct hit!" Lando shouted.
　　"There she goes!"
　　"Pull up, pull up!"
　　They pulled up hard and fast, as the Destroyer was enveloped in a series ofever-increasing explosions, until it looked finally just like one more small star. BlueLeader was caught by the shock wave, and thrown horribly against the side of asmaller Imperial ship, which also exploded. Lando and Wedge escaped.
　　On the Rebel command ship bridge, smoke and shouts filled the air.
　　Ackbar reached Calrissian on the comlink. "The jamming has stopped. Wehave a reading on the shield."
　　"Is it still up?" Lando responded with desperate anticipation in his voice.
　　"I'm afraid so. It looks like General Solo's unit didn't make it."
　　"Until they've destroyed our last ship, there's still hope," replied Lando. Hanwouldn't fail. He couldn't-they still had to pick off that annoying Death Star.
　　On the Death Star, Luke was nearly unconscious beneath the continuing assaultof the Emperor's lightning. Tormented beyond reason, betaken of a weakness thatdrained his very essence, he hoped for nothing more than to submit to the nothingnesstoward which he was drifting.
　　The Emperor smiled down at the enfeebled young Jedi, as Vader struggled to hisfeet beside his master.
　　"Young fool!" Palpatine rasped at Luke. "Only now at the end, do youunderstand. Your puerile skills are no match for the power of the dark side. Youhave paid a price for your lack of vision. Now, young Skywalker, you will pay theprice in full. You will die!"
　　He laughed maniacally; and although it would not have seemed possible to Luke,the outpouring of bolts from the Emperor's fingers actually increased in intensity.The sound screamed through the room, the murderous brightness of the flashes wasoverwhelming.
　　Luke's body slowed, wilted, finally crumpled under the hideous barrage. Hestopped moving altogether. At last, he appeared totally lifeless. The Emperorhissed maliciously.
　　At that instant, Vader sprang up and grabbed the Emperor from behind, pinningPalpatine's upper arms to his torso. Weaker than he'd ever been, Vader had lain stillthese last few minutes, focusing his every fiber of being on this one, concentratedact-the only action possible; his last, if he failed. Ignoring pain, ignoring his shameand his weaknesses, ignoring the bone-crushing noise in his head, he focused solelyand sightlessly on his will-he will to defeat the evil embodied in the Emperor.
　　Palpatine struggled in the grip of Vader's unfeeling embrace, his hands stillshooting bolts of malign energy out in all directions. In his wild flailing, thelightning ripped across the room, tearing into Vader. The Dark Lord fell again,electric currents crackling down his helmet, over his cape, into his heart.
　　Vader stumbled with his load to the middle of the bridge over the black chasmleading to the power core. He held the wailing despot high over his head, and with afinal spasm of strength, hurled him into the abyss.
　　Palpatine's body, still spewing bolts of light, spun out of control, into the void,bouncing back and forth off the sides of the shaft as it fell. It disappeared at last; butthen, a few seconds later, a distant explosion could be heard, far down at the core. Arush of air billowed out the shaft, into the throne room.
　　The wind whipped at Lord Vader's cape, as he staggered and collapsed towardthe hole, trying to follow his master to the end. Luke crawled to his father's side,though, and pulled the Dark Lord away from the edge of the chasm, to safety.
　　Both of them lay on the floor, entwined in each other, too weak to move, toomoved to speak.
　　Inside the bunker on Endor, Imperial controllers watched the main view-screenof the Ewok battle just outside. Though the image was clogged with static, thefighting seemed to be winding down. About time, since they'd initially been toldthat the locals on this moon were harmless nonbelligerents.
　　The interference seemed to worsen-probably another antenna damaged in thefighting-when suddenly a walker pilot appeared on the screen, waving excitedly.
　　"It's over, Commander! The Rebel have been routed, and are fleeing with thebear-creatures into the woods. We need reinforcements to continue the pursuit."
　　The bunker personnel all cheered. The shield was safe.
　　"Open the main door!" ordered the commander. "Send three squads to help."
　　The bunker door opened, the Imperial troops came rushing out only to findthemselves surrounded by Rebels and Ewoks, looking bloody and mean. TheImperial troops surrendered without a fight.
　　Han, Chewie, and five others ran into the bunker with the explosive charges.They placed the timed devices at eleven strategic points in and around the powergenerator, then ran out again as fast as they could.
　　Leia, still in great pain from her wounds, lay in the sheltered comfort of somedistant bushes. She was shouting orders to the Ewoks, to gather their prisoners onthe far side of the clearing, away from the bunker when Han and Chewie tore out,racing for cover. In the next moment, the bunker went.
　　It was a spectacular display, explosion after explosion sending a wall of firehundreds of feet into the air, creating a shock wave that knocked every living creatureoff its feet, and charred all the greenery that faced the clearing.
　　The bunker was destroyed.
　　A captain ran up to Admiral Ackbar, his voice tremulous. "Sir, the shieldaround the Death Star has lost its power."
　　Ackbar looked at the view-screen; the electronically generated web was gone.The moon, and the Death Star, now floated in black, empty, unprotected space.
　　"They did it," Ackbar whispered.
　　He rushed over to the comlink and shouted into the multifrequency war channel."All fighters commence attack on the Death Star's main reactor. The deflectorshield is down. Repeat. The deflector shield is down!"
　　Lando's voice was the next one heard. "I see it. We're on our way. Redgroup! Gold group! Blue Squad! All fighters follow me!" That's my man, Han.Now it's my turn.
　　The Falcon plunged to the surface of the Death Star, followed by hordes ofRebel fighters, followed by a still-massing but disorganized array of Imperial TIEfighters-while three Rebel Star Cruisers headed for the huge Imperial Super StarDestroyer, Vader's flagship, which seemed to be having difficulties with its guidancesystem.
　　Lando and the first wave of X-wings headed for the unfinished portion of theDeath Star, skimming low over the curving surface of the completed side.
　　"Stay low until we get to the unfinished side," Wedge told his squad. Nobodyneeded to be told.
　　"Squadron of enemy fighters coming-"
　　"Blue Wing," called Lando, "take your group and draw the TIE fighters away-"
　　"I'll do what I can."
　　"I'm picking up interference´the Death Star's jamming us, I think-"
　　"More fighters coming at ten o'clock-"
　　"There's the superstructure," Lando called. "Watch for the main reactor shaft."
　　He turned hard into the unfinished side, and began weaving dramatically amongprotruding girders, half-built towers, mazelike channels, temporary scaffolding,sporadic floodlights. The antiaircraft defenses weren't nearly as well developed hereyet-they'd been depending completely on the deflector shield for protection.Consequently the major sources of worry for the Rebels were the physical jeopardiesof the structure itself, and the Imperial TIE fighters on their tails.
　　"I see it-the power-channel system," Wedge radioed. "I'm going in."
　　"I see it, too," agreed Lando. "Here goes nothing."
　　"This isn't going to be easy-"
　　Over a tower and under a bridge-and suddenly they were flying at top speedinside a deep shaft that was barely wide enough for three fighters, wing to wing.Moreover, it was pierced, along its entire twisting length, by myriad feeding shaftsand tunnels, alternate forks, and dead-end caverns; and spiked, in addition, with analarming number of obstacles within the shaft itself: heavy machinery, structuralelements, power cables, floating stairways, barrier half-walls, piled debris.
　　A score of Rebel fighters made the first turn-off into the power shaft, followedby twice that number of TIEs. Two X-wings lost its right away, careening into aderrick to avoid the first volley of laser fire.
　　The chase was on.
　　"Where are we going, Gold Leader?" Wedge called out gaily. A laserbolt hitthe shaft above him, showering his window with sparks.
　　"Lock onto the strongest power source," Lando suggested. "It should be thegenerator."
　　"Red Wing, stay alert-we could run out of space real fast."
　　They quickly strung out into single and double file, as it started becomingapparent that the shaft was not only pocked with side-vents and protruding obstacles,but also narrowing across its width at every turn.
　　TIE fighters hit another Rebel, who exploded in flames. Then another Tiefighter hit a piece of machinery, with a similar result.
　　"I've got a reading on a major shaft obstruction ahead," Lando announced.
　　"Just picked it up. Will you make it?"
　　"Going to be a tight squeeze."
　　It was a tight squeeze. It was a heat-wall occluding three fourths of the tunnel,with a dip in the shaft at the same level to make up a little room. Lando had to spinthe Falcon through 360 degrees while rising, falling, and accelerating. Luckily, theX-wings and Y-wings weren't quite as bulky. Still, two more of them didn't make iton the downside. The smaller TIEs drew closer.
　　Suddenly coarse white static blanketed all the view-screens.
　　"My scope's gone!" yelled Wedge.
　　"Cut speed," cautioned Lando. "Some kind of power discharge causinginterference."
　　"Switch to visual scanning."
　　"That's useless at these velocities-we'll have to fly nearly blind."
　　Two blind X-wings hit the wall as the shaft narrowed again. A third was blownapart by the gaining Imperial fighters.
　　"Green Leader!" called Lando.
　　"Copy, Gold Leader."
　　"Split off and head back to the surface-Home-one just called for a fighter, andyou might draw some fire off us."
　　Green Leader and his cohort peeled off, out of the power shaft, back up to thecruiser battle. One TIE fighter followed, firing continuously.
　　Ackbar's voice came in over the comlink. "The Death Star is tuning away fromthe fleet-looks like it's repositioning to destroy the Endor Moon."
　　"How long before it's in position?" Lando asked.
　　"Point oh three."
　　"That's not enough time! We're running out of time."
　　Wedge broke in the transmission. "Well, we're running out of shaft, too."
　　At that instant the Falcon scraped through an even smaller opening, this timeinjuring her auxiliary thrusters.
　　"That was too close," muttered Calrissian.
　　"Gdzhng dzn," nodded the copilot.
　　Ackbar stared wild-eyed out the observation window. He was looking downonto the deck of the Super Star Destroyer; only miles away. Fires burst over theentire stern, and the Imperial warship was listing badly to starboard.
　　"We've knocked out their forward shields," Ackbar said into the comlink. "Fireat the bridge."
　　Green Leader's group swooped in low, from bottomside, up from the Death Star,
　　"Glad to help out, Home-one," called Green Leader.
　　"Firing proton torpedoes," Green Wing advised.
　　The bridge was hit, with kaleidoscopic results. A rapid chain reaction got setoff, from power station to power station along the middle third of the huge Destroyer,producing a dazzling rainbow of explosions that buckled the ship at right angles, andstarted it spinning like a pinwheel toward the Death Star.
　　The first bridge explosion took Greed Leader with it; the subsequentuncontrolled joyride snagged ten more fighters, two cruisers, and an ordnance vessel.By the time the whole exothermic conglomerate finally crashed into the side of theDeath Star, the impact was momentous enough to actually jolt the battle station,setting off internal explosions and thunderings all through its network of reactors,munitions, and halls.
　　For the first time, the Death Star rocked. The collision with the explodingDestroyer was only the beginning, leading to various systems breakdowns, which ledto reactor meltdowns, which led to personnel panic, abandonment of posts, furthermalfunctions, and general chaos.
　　Smoke was everywhere, substantial rumblings came from all directions at once,people were running and shouting. Electrical fires, steam explosions, cabindepressurizations, disruption of chain-of-command. Added to this, the continuedbombardments by Rebel cruisers-smelling fear in the enemy-merely heightenedthe sense of hysteria that was already pervasive.
　　For the Emperor was dead. The central, powerful evil that had been thecohesive force to the Empire was gone; and when the dark side was this diffused, thisnondirected-this was simply where it led.
　　Confusion.
　　Desperation.
　　Damp fear.
　　In the midst of this uproar, Luke had made it, somehow, to the main dockingbay-where he was trying to carry the hulking deadweight of his father's weakeningbody toward an Imperial shuttle. Halfway there, his strength finally gave out,though; and he collapsed under the strain.
　　Slowly he rose again. Like an automaton, he hoisted his father's body over hisshoulder and stumbled toward one of the last remaining shuttles.
　　Luke rested his father on the ground, trying to collect strength one last time, asexplosions grew louder all around them. Sparks hissed in the rafters; one of thewalls buckled, and smoke poured through a gaping fissure. The floor shook.
　　Vader motioned Luke closer to him. "Luke, help me take this mask off."
　　Luke shook his head. "You'll die."
　　The Dark Lord's voice was weary. "Nothing can stop that now. Just once letme face you without it. Let me look on you with my own eyes."
　　Luke was afraid. Afraid to see his father as he really was. Afraid to see whatperson could have become so dark-the same person who'd fathered Luke, and Leia.Afraid to know the Anakin Skywalker who lived inside Darth Vader.
　　Vader, too, was afraid-to let his son see him, to remove this armored mask thathad been between them so long. The black, armored mask that had been his onlymeans of existing for over twenty years. It had been his voice, and his breath, andhis invisibility-his shield against all human contact. But now he would remove it;for he would see his son before he died.
　　Together they lifted the heavy helmet from Vader's head-inside the maskportion, a complicated breathing apparatus had to be disentangled, a speakingmodulator and view-screen detached from the power unit in back. But when themask was finally off and set aside, Luke gazed on his father's face.
　　It was the sad, benign face of an old man. Bald, beardless, with a mighty scarrunning from the top of his head to the back of the scalp, he had unfocused, deepset,dark eyes, and his skin was pasty white, for it had not seen the sun in two decades.The old man smiled weakly; tears glazed his eyes, now. For a moment, he lookednot too unlike Ben.
　　It was a face full of meanings, that Luke would forever recall. Regret, he sawmost plainly. And shame. Memories could be seen flashing across it´memoriesof rich times. And horrors. And love, too.
　　It was a face that hadn't touched the world in a lifetime. In Luke's lifetime.He saw the wizened nostrils twitch, as they tested a first, tentative smell. He saw thehead tilt imperceptibly to listen-for the first time without electronic auditoryamplification. Luke felt a pang of remorse that the only sounds now to be heardwere those of explosions, the only smells, the pungent sting of electrical fires. Still,it was a touch. Palpable, unfiltered.
　　He saw the old eyes focus on him. Tears burned Luke's cheeks, fell on hisfather's lips. His father smiled at the taste.
　　It was a face that had not seen itself in twenty years.
　　Vader saw his son crying, and knew it must have been at the horror of the facethey boy beheld.
　　It intensified, momentarily, Vader's own sense of anguish-to his crimes, now,he added guilt at the imagined repugnance of his appearance. But then this broughthim to mind of the way he used to look-striking, and grand, with a wry tilt to hisbrow that hinted of invincibility and took in all of life with a wink. Yes, that washow he'd looked once.
　　And this memory brought a wave of other memories with it. Memories ofbrotherhood, and home. His dear wife. The freedom of deep space. Obi-wan.Obi-wan, his friend´and how that friendship had turned. Turned, he knew nothow-but got injected, nonetheless, with some uncaring virulence that festered,until´hold. These were memories he wanted none of, not now. Memories ofmolten lava, crawling up his back´no.
　　This boy had pulled him from that pit-here, now, with this act. This boy wasgood.
　　The boy was good, and the boy had come from him-so there must have beengood in him, too. He smiled up again at his son, and for the first time, loved him.And for the first time in many long years, loved himself again, as well.
　　Suddenly he smelled something-flared his nostrils, sniffed once more.Wildflowers, that was what it was. Just blooming; it must be spring.
　　And there was thunder-he cocked his head, strained his ears. Yes, springthunder, for a spring rain. To make the flowers bloom.
　　Yes, there´he felt a raindrop on his lips. He licked the delicate droplet´butwait, it wasn't sweetwater, it was salty, it was´a teardrop.
　　He focused on Luke once again, and saw his son was crying. Yes that was it, hewas tasting his boy's grief-because he looked so horrible; because he was sohorrible.
　　But he wanted to make it all right for Luke, he wanted Luke to know he wasn'treally ugly like this, not deep inside, not all together. With a little self-deprecatorysmile, he shook his head at Luke, explaining away the unsightly beast his son saw."Luminous beings are we, Luke-not this crude matter."
　　Luke shook his head, too-to tell his father it was all right, to dismiss the oldman's shame, to tell him nothing mattered now. And everything-but he couldn'ttalk.
　　Vader spoke again, even weaker-almost inaudible. "Go, my son. Leaveme."
　　At that, Luke found his voice. "No. You're coming with me. I'll not leaveyou here. I've got to save you."
　　"You already have, Luke," he whispered. He wished, briefly, he'd met Yoda, tothank the old Jedi for the training he'd given Luke´but perhaps he'd be with Yodasoon, now, in the ethereal oneness of the Force. And with Obi-wan.
　　"Father, I won't leave you," Luke protested. Explosions jarred the docking bayin earnest, crumbling one entire wall, splitting the ceiling. A jet of blue flame shotfrom a gas nozzle nearby. Just beneath it the floor began to melt.
　　Vader pulled Luke very close, spoke into his ear. "Luke, you were right´andyou were right about me´Tell your sister´you were right."
　　With that, he closed his eyes, and Darth Vader-Anakin Skywalker-died.
　　A tremendous explosion filled the back of the bay with fire, knocking Luke flatto the ground. Slowly, he rose again; and like an automaton, stumbled toward one ofthe last remaining shuttles.
　　The Millennium Falcon continued its swerving race through the labyrinth ofpower channels, inching ever-closer to the hub of the giant sphere-the main reactor.The Rebel cruisers were unloading a continuous bombardment on the exposed,unfinished superstructure of the Death Star, now, each hit causing a resonatingshudder in the immense battle station, and a new series of catastrophic events within.
　　Commander Jerjerrod sat, brooding, in the control room of the Death Star,watching all about him crumble. Half of his crew were dead, wounded, or runoff-where they hoped to find sanctuary was unclear, if not insane. The restwandered ineffectually, or railed at the enemy ships, or fired all their guns at allsectors, or shouted orders, or focused desperately on a single task, as if that wouldsave them. Or, like Jerjerrod simply brooded.
　　He couldn't fathom what he'd done wrong. He'd been patient, he'd been loyal,he'd been clever, he'd been hard. He was the commander of the greatest battlestation ever built. Or, at least, almost built. He hated this Rebel Alliance, now,with a child's hate, untempered. He'd loved it once-it had been the small boy hecould bully, the enraged baby animal he could torture. But the boy had grown upnow; it knew how to fight back effectively. It had broken its bonds.
　　Jerjerrod hated it now.
　　Yet there seemed to be little he could do at this point. Except, of course,destroy Endor-he could do that. It was a small act, a token really-to incineratesomething green and living, gratuitously, meanly, toward no end but that of wantondestruction. A small act, but deliciously satisfying.
　　An aide ran up to him. "The Rebel fleet is closing, sir."
　　"Concentrate all fire in that sector," he answered distractedly. A console on thefar wall burst into flame.
　　"The fighters in the superstructure are eluding our defense system, Commander.Shouldn't we-"
　　"Flood sectors 304 and 138. That should slow them up." He arched hiseyebrows at the aide.
　　This made little sense to the aide, who had cause to wonder at the commander'sgrasp of the situation. "But sir´"
　　"What is the rotation factor to firing range on the Endor Moon?"
　　The aide checked the compuscreen. "Point oh two to moon target, sir.Commander, the fleet-"
　　"Accelerate rotation until moon is in range, and then fire on my mark."
　　"Yes, sir." The aide pulled a bank of switches. "Rotation accelerating, sir.Point oh one to moon target, sir. Sixty seconds to firing range. Sir, good-bye, sir."The aide saluted, put the firing switch in Jerjerrod's hand as another explosion shookthe control room, and ran out the door.
　　Jerjerrod smiled calmly at the view-screen. Endor was starting to come out ofthe Death Star's eclipse. He fondled the detonation switch in his hand. Point oh ohfive to moon target. Screams erupted in the next room.
　　Thirty seconds to firing.
　　Lando was homing in on the reactor core shaft. Else only Wedge was left,flying just ahead of him, and Gold Wing, just behind. Several TIE fighters stilltrailed.
　　These central twistings were barely two planes wide, and turned sharply everyfive or ten seconds at the speeds Lando was reaching. Another Imperial jet explodedagainst a wall; another shot down Gold Wing.
　　And then there were two.
　　Lando's tail-gunners kept the remaining TIE fighters jumping in the narrowspace, until at last the main reactor shaft came into view. They'd never seen areactor that awesome.
　　"It's too big, Gold Leader," yelled Wedge. "My proton torpedoes won't evendent that."
　　"Go for the power regulator on the north tower," Lando directed. "I'll take themain reactor. We're carrying concussion missiles-they should penetrate. Once Ilet them go, we won't have much time to get out of here, though."
　　"I'm already on my way out," Wedge exclaimed.
　　He fired his torpedoes with a Corellian war-cry, hitting both sides of the northtower, and peeled off, accelerating.
　　The Falcon waited three dangerous seconds longer, then loosed its concussionmissiles with a powerful roar. For another second the flash was too bright to seewhat had happened. And then the whole reactor began to go.
　　"Direct hit!" shouted Lando. "Now comes the hard part."
　　The shaft was already caving in on top of him, creating a tunnel effect. TheFalcon maneuvered through the twisting outlet, through walls of flame, and throughmoving shafts, always just ahead of the continuing chain of explosions.
　　Wedge tore out of the superstructure at barely sublight speed, whipped aroundthe near side of Endor, and coasted into deep space, slowing slowly in a gentle arc, toreturn to the safety of the moon.
　　A moment later, in a destabilized Imperial shuttle, Luke escaped the maindocking bay, just as that section began to blow apart completely. His wobbling craft,too, headed for the green sanctuary in the near distance.
　　And finally, as if being spit out of the very flames of the conflagration, theMillennium Falcon shot toward Endor, only moments before the Death Star flaredinto brilliant oblivion, like a fulminant supernova.
　　Han was binding Leia's arm-wound in a fern-dell when the Death Star blew. Itcaptured everyone's attention, wherever they happened to be-Ewoks, stormtrooperprisoners, Rebel troops-the final, turbulent, flash of self-destruction, incandescent inthe evening sky. The Rebels cheered.
　　Leia touched Han's cheek. He leaned over, and kissed her; then sat back,seeing her eyes focused on the starry sky.
　　"Hey," he jostled, "I'll bet Luke got off that thing before it blew."
　　She nodded. "He did. I can feel it." Her brother's living presence touchedher, through the Force. She reached out to answer the touch, to reassure Luke shewas all right. Everything was all right.
　　Han looked at her with deep love, special love. For she was a special woman.A princess not by title, but by heart. Her fortitude astounded him, yet she heldherself so lightly. Once, he'd wanted whatever he wanted, for himself, because hewanted it. Now he wanted everything for her. Her everythings. And one thing hecould see she wanted dearly, was Luke.
　　"You really care for him, don't you?"
　　She nodded, scanning the sky. He was alive, Luke was alive. And theother-the Dark One-was dead.
　　"Well, listen," Han went on, "I understand. When he gets back, I won't stand inyour way´"
　　She squinted at him, suddenly aware they were crossing wires, having differentconversations. "What are you talking about?" she said. Then she realized what hewas talking about. "Oh, no. No," she laughed, "it's not like that at all-Luke is mybrother."
　　Han was successively stunned, embarrassed, and elated. This made everythingfine, just fine.
　　He took her in his arms, embraced her, lowered her back down into theferns´and being extra careful of her wounded arm, lay down there beside her, underthe waning glow of the burning Star.
　　Luke stood in a forest clearing before a great pile of logs and branches. Lying,still and robed, atop the mound, was the lifeless body of Darth Vader. Luke set atorch to the kindling.
　　As the flames enveloped the corpse, smoke rose from the vents in the mask,almost like a black spirit, finally freed. Luke stared with a fierce sorrow at theconflagration. Silently, he said his last goodbye. He, alone, had believed in thesmall speck of humanity remaining in his father. That redemption rose, now, withthese flames, into the night.
　　Luke followed the blazing embers as they sailed to the sky. They mixed, there,in his vision, with the fireworks the Rebel fighters were setting off in victorycelebration. And these, in turn, mingled with the bonfires that speckled the woodsand the Ewoks village-fires of elation, of comfort and triumph. He could hear thedrums beating, the music weaving in the firelight, the cheers of brave reunion.Luke's cheer was mute as he gazed into the fires of his own victory and loss.
　　A huge bonfire blazed in the center of the Ewok village square for thecelebration that night. Rebels and Ewoks rejoiced in the warm firelight of the coolevening-singing, dancing, and laughing, in the communal language of liberation.Even Teebo and Artoo had reconciled, and were doing a little jig together, as othersclapped in time to the music. Threepio, his regal days in this village over, wascontent to sit near the spinning little droid who was his best friend in the universe.He thanked the Maker that Captain Solo had been able to fix Artoo, not to mentionMistress Leia-for a man without protocol, Solo did have his moments. And hethanked the Maker this bloody war was over.
　　The prisoners had been sent on shuttles to what was left of the ImperialFleet-the Rebel Star Cruisers were dealing with all that. Up there, somewhere.The Death Star had burned itself out.
　　Han, Leia, and Chewbacca stood off a short way from the revelers. Theystayed close to each other, not talking; periodically glancing at the path that led intothe village. Half waiting, half trying not to wait; unable to do anything else.
　　Until, at last, their patience was rewarded: Luke and Lando, exhausted, into thelight. The friends rushed to greet them. They all embraced, cheered, jumped about,fell over, and finally just huddled, still wordless, content with the comfort of eachother's touch.
　　In a while, the two droids sidled over as well, to stand beside their dearestcomrades.
　　The fuzzy Ewoks continued in wild jubilation, far into the night, while this smallcompany of gallant adventurers watched on from the sidelines.
　　For an evanescent moment, looking into the bonfire, Luke thought he saw facesdancing-Yoda, Ben; was it his father? He drew away from his companions, to tryto see what the faces were saying; they were ephemeral, and spoke only to theshadows of the flames, and then disappeared altogether.
　　It gave Luke a momentary sadness but then Leia took his hand, and drew himback close to her and to the others, back into their circle of warmth, and camaraderie;and love.
　　The Empire was dead.
　　Long live the Alliance.

LastIndex

? Georgelucas




 
  